Allegiances 
THUNDERCLAN 
LEADER BRAMBLESTAR—dark brown tabby 
tom with amber eyes 
DEPUTY SQUIRRELFLIGHT—dark ginger 
she-cat with green eyes and one 
white paw 
MEDICINE 
CATS 
JAYFEATHER—gray tabby tom with 
blind blue eyes 
ALDERHEART—dark ginger tom 
with amber eyes 
WARRIORS (toms and she-cats without kits) 
THORNCLAW—golden-brown

tabby tom 
WHITEWING—white she-cat with 
green eyes 
BIRCHFALL—light brown tabby 
tom 
BERRYNOSE—cream-colored tom 
with a stump for a tail 
MOUSEWHISKER—gray-and-white 
tom 
POPPYFROST—pale tortoiseshelland-
white she-cat 
LIONBLAZE—golden tabby tom 
with amber eyes 
ROSEPETAL—dark cream she-cat 
APPRENTICE, BRISTLEPAW (pale 
gray she-cat) 
STEMLEAF—white-and-orange 
tom

LILYHEART—small, dark tabby 
she-cat with white patches and 
blue eyes 
BUMBLESTRIPE—very pale gray 
tom with black stripes 
CHERRYFALL—ginger she-cat 
MOLEWHISKER—brown-andcream 
tom 
CINDERHEART—gray tabby she-cat 
BLOSSOMFALL—tortoiseshelland-
white she-cat with petalshaped 
white patches 
IVYPOOL—silver-and-white tabby 
she-cat with dark blue eyes 
EAGLEWING—ginger she-cat 
DEWNOSE—gray-and-white tom 
APPRENTICE, THRIFTPAW (dark gray 
she-cat) 
STORMCLOUD—gray tabby tom

HOLLYTUFT—black she-cat 
APPRENTICE, FLIPPAW (tabby tom) 
FERNSONG—yellow tabby tom 
HONEYFUR—white she-cat with 
yellow splotches 
TWIGBRANCH—gray she-cat with 
green eyes 
FINLEAP—brown tom 
SHELLFUR—tortoiseshell tom 
PLUMSTONE—black-and-ginger 
she-cat 
LEAFSHADE—tortoiseshell shecat 
SPOTFUR—spotted tabby she-cat 
FLYWHISKER—striped gray tabby 
she-cat 
SNAPTOOTH—golden tabby tom 
QUEENS (she-cats expecting or nursing

kits) 
DAISY—cream long-furred cat 
from the horseplace 
SORRELSTRIPE—dark brown shecat 
(mother to Baykit, a golden 
tabby tom, and Myrtlekit, a pale 
brown she-kit) 
SPARKPELT—orange tabby she-cat 
(mother to Finchkit, a 
tortoiseshell she-kit, and 
Flamekit, a black tom) 
ELDERS (former warriors and queens, now 
retired) 
GRAYSTRIPE—long-haired gray 
tom 
CLOUDTAIL—long-haired white 
tom with blue eyes 
BRIGHTHEART—white she-cat with 
ginger patches

BRACKENFUR—golden-brown 
tabby tom 
SHADOWCLAN 
LEADER TIGERSTAR—dark brown tabby 
tom 
DEPUTY CLOVERFOOT—gray tabby she-cat 
MEDICINE 
CAT 
PUDDLESHINE—brown tom with 
white splotches 
APPRENTICE, SHADOWPAW (gray 
tabby tom) 
WARRIORS TAWNYPELT—tortoiseshell shecat 
with green eyes 
DOVEWING—pale gray she-cat 
with green eyes 
STRIKESTONE—brown tabby tom 
STONEWING—white tom

SCORCHFUR—dark gray tom with 
slashed ears 
APPRENTICE, FLAXPAW (brown 
tabby tom) 
SPARROWTAIL—large brown 
tabby tom 
SNOWBIRD—pure white she-cat 
with green eyes 
YARROWLEAF—ginger she-cat 
with yellow eyes 
BERRYHEART—black-and-white 
she-cat 
GRASSHEART—pale brown tabby 
she-cat 
WHORLPELT—gray-and-white tom 
APPRENTICE, HOPPAW (calico shecat) 
ANTFUR—tom with a brown-andblack 
splotched pelt

BLAZEFIRE—white-and-ginger 
tom 
CINNAMONTAIL—brown tabby 
she-cat with white paws 
FLOWERSTEM—silver she-cat 
SNAKETOOTH—honey-colored 
tabby she-cat 
SLATEFUR—sleek gray tom 
POUNCESTEP—gray she-cat 
LIGHTLEAP—brown tabby she-cat 
CONEFOOT—white-and-gray tom 
FRONDWHISKER—gray tabby shecat 
GULLSWOOP—white she-cat 
SPIRECLAW—black-and-white tom 
HOLLOWSPRING—black tom 
SUNBEAM—brown-and-white 
tabby she-cat

ELDERS OAKFUR—small brown tom 
SKYCLAN 
LEADER LEAFSTAR—brown-and-cream 
tabby she-cat with amber eyes 
DEPUTY HAWKWING—dark gray tom with 
yellow eyes 
MEDICINE 
CATS 
FRECKLEWISH—mottled light 
brown tabby she-cat with spotted 
legs 
FIDGETFLAKE—black-and-white 
tom 
MEDIATOR TREE—yellow tom with amber 
eyes 
WARRIORS SPARROWPELT—dark brown tabby 
tom

MACGYVER—black-and-white tom 
DEWSPRING—sturdy gray tom 
PLUMWILLOW—dark gray she-cat 
SAGENOSE—pale gray tom 
APPRENTICE, KITEPAW (reddishbrown 
tom) 
HARRYBROOK—gray tom 
BLOSSOMHEART—ginger-andwhite 
she-cat 
APPRENTICE, TURTLEPAW 
(tortoiseshell she-cat) 
SANDYNOSE—stocky light brown 
tom with ginger legs 
RABBITLEAP—brown tom 
REEDCLAW—small pale tabby shecat 
MINTFUR—gray tabby she-cat with 
blue eyes 
NETTLESPLASH—pale brown tom

TINYCLOUD—small white she-cat 
PALESKY—black-and-white shecat 
NECTARSONG—brown she-cat 
QUAILFEATHER—white tom with 
crow-black ears 
PIGEONFOOT—gray-and-white 
she-cat 
FRINGEWHISKER—white she-cat 
with brown splotches 
GRAVELNOSE—tan tom 
SUNNYPELT—ginger she-cat 
QUEENS VIOLETSHINE—black-and-white 
she-cat with yellow eyes (mother 
to Rootkit, a yellow tom, and 
Needlekit, a black-and-white shekit) 
BELLALEAF—pale orange she-cat 
with green eyes (mother to

Wrenkit, a golden tabby she-kit) 
ELDERS FALLOWFERN—pale brown shecat 
who has lost her hearing 
WINDCLAN 
LEADER HARESTAR—brown-and-white tom 
DEPUTY CROWFEATHER—dark gray tom 
MEDICINE 
CAT 
KESTRELFLIGHT—mottled gray 
tom with white splotches like 
kestrel feathers 
WARRIORS NIGHTCLOUD—black she-cat 
BRINDLEWING—mottled brown 
she-cat 
LEAFTAIL—dark tabby tom with 
amber eyes 
EMBERFOOT—gray tom with two 
dark paws

SMOKEHAZE—gray she-cat 
BREEZEPELT—black tom with 
amber eyes 
CROUCHFOOT—ginger tom 
LARKWING—pale brown tabby 
she-cat 
SEDGEWHISKER—light brown 
tabby she-cat 
SLIGHTFOOT—black tom with 
white flash on his chest 
OATCLAW—pale brown tabby tom 
HOOTWHISKER—dark gray tom 
FERNSTRIPE—gray tabby she-cat 
QUEENS HEATHERTAIL—light brown tabby 
she-cat with blue eyes (mother to 
Breezepelt’s kits: Woodkit, a 
brown she-kit, and Applekit, a 
yellow tabby she-kit)

FEATHERPELT—gray tabby she-cat 
(mother to Oatclaw’s kits: 
Whistlekit, a gray tabby she-kit; 
Songkit, a tortoiseshell she-kit; 
and Flutterkit, a brown-and-white 
tom) 
ELDERS WHISKERNOSE—light brown tom 
GORSETAIL—very pale gray-andwhite 
she-cat with blue eyes 
RIVERCLAN 
LEADER MISTYSTAR—gray she-cat with 
blue eyes 
DEPUTY REEDWHISKER—black tom 
MEDICINE 
CATS 
MOTHWING—dappled golden shecat 
WILLOWSHINE—gray tabby she

cat 
WARRIORS DUSKFUR—brown tabby she-cat 
MINNOWTAIL—dark gray-andwhite 
she-cat 
MALLOWNOSE—light brown tabby 
tom 
BEETLEWHISKER—brown-andwhite 
tabby tom 
PODLIGHT—gray-and-white tom 
SHIMMERPELT—silver she-cat 
LIZARDTAIL—light brown tom 
SNEEZECLOUD—gray-and-white 
tom 
BRACKENPELT—tortoiseshell shecat 
JAYCLAW—gray tom 
OWLNOSE—brown tabby tom 
ICEWING—white she-cat with blue

eyes 
SOFTPELT—gray she-cat 
GORSECLAW—white tom with 
gray ears 
NIGHTSKY—dark gray she-cat with 
blue eyes 
HARELIGHT—white tom 
BREEZEHEART—brown-and-white 
she-cat 
DAPPLETUFT—gray-and-white tom 
QUEENS CURLFEATHER—pale brown shecat 
HAVENPELT—black-and-white shecat 
(mother to Sneezecloud’s 
kits: Fogkit, a gray-and-white 
she-kit, and Splashkit, a brown 
tabby tom) 
ELDERS MOSSPELT—tortoiseshell-and

Prologue 
From a vast indigo sky, a warrior of StarClan 
gazed down at the lake and the Clan territories 
clustered around it. A half-moon floated in the 
darkness, its light turning the surface of the 
water to silver and glittering on the snowcovered 
land. The branches of the trees dipped 
gently under their weight of snow. 
The starry warrior spotted movement at the 
edge of the trees where forest gave way to the 
steep slopes of the moor. Two tiny figures 
toiled upward, their shapes dark against the icy 
brightness. In the lead was a brown tom with 
white splotches, while close behind him a 
smaller tom, a gray tabby with darker stripes, 
was struggling to make headway, his belly fur 
brushing the snow. They were both unaware of 
being observed. 
“Puddleshine,” the StarClan warrior

murmured, recognizing the ShadowClan 
medicine cat. “And there’s his apprentice, 
Shadowpaw. They must be on their way to the 
Moonpool for the half-moon meeting.” 
The spirit cat focused an intense gaze on 
the tabby apprentice, nodding appreciatively at 
his determination to keep up with his mentor, 
and at how his eyes shone with anticipation at 
the coming meeting, when he would share 
dreams with StarClan. 
“There is no cat like you in all the five 
Clans, Shadowpaw,” the warrior continued. 
“Now great events are coming, and the Clans 
will experience far-reaching changes. And you, 
young apprentice—you will have an important 
part to play.” 
The StarClan spirit went on watching as the 
two medicine cats trudged on up the moorland 
slope, their figures slowly dwindling into the 
distance until they crossed the crest of the hill 
and vanished.

“Yes.” The word was breathed out on a sigh 
of satisfaction. “Shadowpaw, your name will be 
remembered for as long as the Clans survive.”

Chapter 1 
Shadowpaw craned his neck over his back, 
straining to groom the hard-to-reach spot at the 
base of his tail. He had just managed to give his 
fur a few vigorous licks when he heard paw 
steps approaching. He looked up to see his 
father, Tigerstar, and his mother, Dovewing, 
their pelts brushing as they gazed down at him 
with pride and joy shining in their eyes. 
“What is it?” he asked, sitting up and giving 
his pelt a shake. 
“We just came to see you off,” Tigerstar 
responded, while Dovewing gave her son’s ears 
a quick, affectionate lick. 
Shadowpaw’s fur prickled with 
embarrassment. Like I haven’t been to the 
Moonpool before, he thought. They’re still 
treating me as if I’m a kit in the nursery! 
He was sure that his parents hadn’t made

such a fuss when his littermates, Pouncestep 
and Lightleap, had been warrior apprentices. I 
guess it’s because I’m going to be a medicine 
cat. . . . Or maybe because of the seizures he’d 
had since he was a kit. He knew his parents still 
worried about him, even though it had been a 
while since his last upsetting vision. They’re 
probably hoping that with some training from 
the other medicine cats, I’ll learn to control 
my visions once and for all . . . and I can be 
normal. 
Shadowpaw wanted that, too. 
“The snow must be really deep up on the 
moors,” Dovewing mewed. “Make sure you 
watch where you’re putting your paws.” 
Shadowpaw wriggled his shoulders, praying 
that none of his Clanmates were listening. “I 
will,” he promised, glancing toward the 
medicine cats’ den in the hope of seeing his 
mentor, Puddleshine, emerge. But there was no 
sign of him yet.

To his relief, Tigerstar gave Dovewing a 
nudge and they both moved off toward the Clan 
leader’s den. Shadowpaw rubbed one paw 
hastily across his face and bounded across the 
camp to see what was keeping Puddleshine. 
Intent on finding his mentor, Shadowpaw 
barely noticed the patrol trekking toward the 
fresh-kill pile, prey dangling from their jaws. 
He skidded to a halt just in time to avoid 
colliding with Cloverfoot, the Clan deputy. 
“Shadowpaw!” she exclaimed around the 
shrew she was carrying. “You nearly knocked 
me off my paws.” 
“Sorry, Cloverfoot,” Shadowpaw meowed, 
dipping his head respectfully. 
Cloverfoot let out a snort, half annoyed, 
half amused. “Apprentices!” 
Shadowpaw tried to hide his irritation. He 
was an apprentice, yes, but an old one— 
medicine cat apprentices’ training lasted longer 
than warriors’. His littermates were full

warriors already. But he knew his parents would 
want him to respect the deputy. 
Cloverfoot padded on, followed by 
Strikestone, Yarrowleaf, and Blazefire. Though 
they were all carrying prey, they had only one 
or two pieces each, and what little they had 
managed to catch was undersized and scrawny. 
“I can’t remember a leaf-bare as cold as 
this,” Yarrowleaf complained as she dropped a 
blackbird on the fresh-kill pile. 
Strikestone nodded, shivering as he fluffed 
out his brown tabby pelt. “No wonder there’s no 
prey. They’re all hiding down their holes, and I 
can’t blame them.” 
As Shadowpaw moved on, out of earshot, he 
couldn’t help noticing how pitifully small the 
fresh-kill pile was, and he tried to ignore his 
own growling belly. He could hardly remember 
his first leaf-bare, when he’d been a tiny kit, so 
he didn’t know if the older cats were right and 
the weather was unusually cold.

I only know I don’t like it, he grumbled to 
himself as he picked his way through the icy 
slush that covered the ground of the camp. My 
paws are so cold I think they’ll drop off. I 
can’t wait for newleaf! 
Puddleshine ducked out of the entrance to 
the medicine cats’ den as Shadowpaw 
approached. “Good, you’re ready,” he meowed. 
“We’d better hurry, or we’ll be late.” As he led 
the way toward the camp entrance, he added, 
“I’ve been checking our herb stores, and they’re 
getting dangerously low.” 
“We could search for more on the way 
back,” Shadowpaw suggested, his medicine-cat 
duties driving out his thoughts of cold and 
hunger. He always enjoyed working with 
Puddleshine to find, sort, and store the herbs. 
Treating cats with herbs made him feel calm 
and in control . . . the opposite of how he felt 
during his seizures and the accompanying 
visions.

“We can try,” Puddleshine sighed. “But what 
isn’t frostbitten will be covered with snow.” He 
glanced over his shoulder at Shadowpaw as the 
two cats headed out into the forest. “This is 
turning out to be a really bad leaf-bare. And it 
isn’t over yet, not by a long way.” 
Excitement tingled through Shadowpaw 
from ears to tail-tip as he scrambled up the 
rocky slope toward the line of bushes that 
surrounded the Moonpool hollow. His worries 
over his seizures and the bitter leaf-bare faded; 
every hair on his pelt was bristling with 
anticipation of his meeting with the other 
medicine cats, and most of all with StarClan. 
He might not be a full medicine cat yet, and 
he might not be fully in control of his 
visions . . . but he would still get to meet with 
his warrior ancestors. And from the rest of the 
medicine cats he would find out what was going 
on in the other Clans.

Standing at the top of the slope, waiting for 
Puddleshine to push his way through the 
bushes, Shadowpaw reflected on the last few 
moons. Things had been tense in ShadowClan 
as every cat settled into their new boundaries 
and grew used to sharing a border with SkyClan. 
Not long ago, SkyClan had lived separately 
from the other Clans, in a far-flung territory in 
a gorge. But StarClan had called SkyClan back 
to join the other Clans by the lake, because the 
Clans were stronger when all five were united. 
Still, SkyClan had needed its own territory, 
which had meant new borders for everyone, and 
it had taken time for the other Clans to accept 
them. Shadowpaw was relieved that things 
seemed more peaceful now; the brutally cold 
leaf-bare had given all the Clans more to worry 
about than quarreling with one another. They 
were even beginning to rely on one another, 
especially in sharing herbs when the cold 
weather had damaged so many of the plants

they needed. Shadowpaw felt proud that they 
were all getting along, instead of battling one 
another for every piece of prey. 
That wasn’t a great start to Tigerstar’s 
leadership. . . . I’m glad it’s over now! 
“Are you going to stand out there all night?” 
At the sound of Puddleshine’s voice from 
the other side of the bushes, Shadowpaw dived 
in among the branches, wincing as sharp twigs 
scraped along his pelt, and thrust himself out 
onto the ledge above the Moonpool. Opposite 
him, halfway up the rocky wall of the hollow, a 
trickle of water bubbled out from between two 
moss-covered boulders. The water fell down 
into the pool below, with a fitful glimmer as if 
the stars themselves were trapped inside it. The 
rippling surface of the pool shone silver with 
reflected moonlight. 
Shadowpaw wanted to leap into the air with 
excitement at being back at the Moonpool, but 
he fought to hold on to some self-control, and

padded down the spiral path to the water’s edge 
with all the dignity expected of a medicine cat. 
Awe welled up inside him as he felt his paws 
slip into the hollows made by cats countless 
seasons before. 
Who were they? Where did they go? he 
wondered. 
The two ThunderClan medicine cats were 
already sitting beside the pool. Shadowpaw 
guessed it was too cold to wait outside for 
everyone to arrive, as the medicine cats usually 
did. Alderheart was thoughtfully grooming his 
chest fur, while Jayfeather’s tail-tip twitched 
back and forth in irritation. He turned his blind 
blue gaze on Puddleshine and Shadowpaw as 
they reached the bottom of the hollow. 
“You took your time,” he snapped. “We’re 
wasting moonlight.” 
Shadowpaw realized that Kestrelflight of 
WindClan and Mothwing and Willowshine, the 
two RiverClan medicine cats, were sitting just

beyond the two from ThunderClan. The shadow 
of a rock had hidden them from him until now. 
“Nice to see you, too, Jayfeather,” 
Puddleshine responded mildly. “I’m sorry if 
we’re late, but I don’t see Frecklewish or 
Fidgetflake, either.” 
Jayfeather gave a disdainful sniff. “If 
they’re not here soon, we’ll start without 
them.” 
Would Jayfeather really do that? 
Shadowpaw was still staring at the ThunderClan 
medicine cat, wondering, when a rustling from 
the top of the slope put him on alert. Looking 
up, he saw Frecklewish pushing her way 
through the bushes, followed closely by 
Fidgetflake. 
“At last!” Jayfeather hissed. 
He’s in a mood, Shadowpaw thought, then 
added to himself with a flicker of amusement, 
Nothing new there, then. 
As the two SkyClan medicine cats padded

down the slope, Shadowpaw noticed how thin 
and weary they both looked. For a heartbeat he 
wondered if there was anything wrong in 
SkyClan. Then he realized that he and the rest 
of the medicine cats looked just as skinny, just 
as worn out by the trials of leaf-bare. 
Frecklewish dipped her head to her fellow 
medicine cats as she joined them beside the 
pool. “Greetings,” she mewed, her fatigue clear 
in her voice. “How is the prey running in your 
Clans?” 
For a moment no cat replied, and 
Shadowpaw could sense their uneasiness. None 
of them wants to admit that their Clan is 
having problems. 
Shadowpaw was surprised when 
Puddleshine, who was normally so pensive, was 
the first to speak up. Maybe the cold had 
banished his mentor’s reserve and enabled him 
to be honest. 
“The hunting is very poor in ShadowClan,”

he replied; Shadowpaw felt a twinge of alarm at 
how discouraged his mentor sounded. “If this 
freezing cold goes on much longer, I don’t 
know what we’ll do.” 
The remaining medicine cats exchanged 
glances of relief, as if they were glad to learn 
their Clan wasn’t the only one suffering. 
Willowshine nodded in agreement. “Many 
RiverClan cats are getting sick because it’s so 
cold.” 
“In ThunderClan too,” Alderheart 
murmured. 
“We’re running out of herbs,” Fidgetflake 
added with a twitch of his whiskers. “And the 
few we have left are shriveled and useless.” 
Frecklewish gave her Clanmate a 
sympathetic glance. “I’ve heard some of the 
younger warriors joking about running off to be 
kittypets,” she meowed. 
“No cat had better say that in my hearing.” 
Jayfeather drew his lips back in the beginning

of a snarl. “Or they’ll wish they hadn’t.” 
“Keep your fur on, Jayfeather,” Frecklewish 
responded. “It was only a joke. All SkyClan cats 
are loyal to their Clan.” 
Jayfeather’s only reply was an irritated 
flick of his ears. 
“I don’t suppose any of you have spare 
supplies of catmint?” Kestrelflight asked 
hesitantly. “The clumps that grow in WindClan 
are all blackened by frost. We won’t have any 
more until newleaf.” 
Most of the cats shook their heads, except 
for Willowshine, who rested her tail 
encouragingly on Kestrelflight’s shoulder. 
“RiverClan can help,” she promised. “There’s 
catmint growing in the Twoleg gardens near our 
border. It’s more sheltered there.” 
“Thanks, Willowshine.” Kestrelflight’s 
voice was unsteady. “There’s whitecough in the 
WindClan camp, and without catmint I’m 
terrified it will turn to greencough.”

“Meet me by the border tomorrow at 
sunhigh,” Willowshine mewed. “I’ll show you 
where the catmint grows.” 
“This is all well and good,” Jayfeather 
snorted, “every cat getting along, but let’s not 
forget why we’re here. I’m much more 
interested in what StarClan has to say. Shall we 
begin?” He paced to the edge of the Moonpool 
and stretched out one forepaw to touch the 
surface, only to draw his paw back with a gasp 
of surprise. 
“What’s wrong?” Puddleshine asked. One 
by one, the medicine cats cautiously 
approached the Moonpool’s surface. 
Shadowpaw sniffed the Moonpool curiously, 
then reached out a tentative paw. He was 
stunned when he hit something solid. What in 
the stars . . . ? Instead of water, he had touched 
ice, so thin that it gave way under the pressure 
of his pad, the splinters bobbing at the water’s 
edge.

“The Moonpool is beginning to freeze,” 
Kestrelflight meowed, while Shadowpaw licked 
the icy water from his paw. That felt really 
weird! 
“Well, that proves it: the cold is worse than 
usual,” Jayfeather grumbled. 
“Has it never happened before?” 
Fidgetflake asked, his eyes wide. 
“I can’t recall it happening before,” 
Mothwing replied in an even voice. “There has 
been ice in the Moonpool from time to time, 
but I don’t remember it freezing all the way 
through.” 
“Well, never mind—it’s time to share 
dreams with StarClan,” Jayfeather announced 
abruptly. “Maybe they can tell us how long we 
have to suffer this bitter cold.” 
“And maybe we’ll be able to speak with 
Leafpool,” Willowshine added, her voice soft 
with grief. 
Shadowpaw had hardly known the

ThunderClan medicine cat, but he had heard 
stories about her and knew how much every cat 
in the forest admired her. Even though 
ThunderClan had two other medicine cats, they 
must be feeling the loss of Leafpool as if a 
badger had torn away one of their limbs. He 
noticed that Jayfeather had closed his eyes, as 
if he was struggling with desperate pain, and he 
remembered that Leafpool had been 
Jayfeather’s mother as well as his mentor. 
Suddenly Shadowpaw could forgive all 
Jayfeather’s earlier gruffness. Dovewing can 
be really embarrassing at times, treating me 
like I’m still a kit, but I can’t imagine how 
much it would hurt to lose her. 
Alderheart drew closer to his Clanmate. 
“She still watches over us from StarClan,” he 
murmured. 
“I know.” Shadowpaw could hardly hear 
Jayfeather’s low-voiced response. “But even 
for medicine cats, it’s not the same.”

Huddling together for warmth, the nine 
medicine cats stretched their necks out over 
the Moonpool and lowered their heads to touch 
their noses to the surface. Shadowpaw’s 
breathing grew rapid from excitement. Within a 
couple of heartbeats, he knew, he would find 
himself transported into StarClan; either that, 
or the StarClan warriors would leave their 
territory and come to meet with the living cats 
at the Moonpool. 
Instead there was only silence. Then, as the 
moments crawled by, Shadowpaw heard a 
confused clamor of cats’ voices, faint as if 
coming from an immense distance. He couldn’t 
make out what the cats were trying to say, or 
even if there were coherent words in their 
cries. Alarmed, Shadowpaw looked up to find 
cloudy images in the sky, like scraps of softly 
glowing mist. For a few heartbeats, each of the 
scraps would almost solidify into the form of a 
cat, then fade and dissolve again into a

shapeless blur. 
Icy fear flooded over Shadowpaw, and he 
pressed himself closer to Puddleshine’s side. 
Fighting back panic, he tried to tell himself that 
he was being stupid. I haven’t been to the 
Moonpool as many times as the others, he 
told himself. Maybe this isn’t unusual. 
But as the misty images faded, Shadowpaw 
saw that the other medicine cats were staring at 
one another, shocked and unnerved. “Has this 
happened before?” he asked, striving to stop his 
voice from squeaking like a terrified kit. 
Kestrelflight shook his head. “I’ve never 
seen anything like that before,” he replied. “I’ve 
never even heard of it, not from any cat.” 
The other medicine cats murmured 
agreement. 
“What does it mean?” Shadowpaw asked. “It 
can’t be good . . . right?” 
“I wouldn’t worry about it.” Puddleshine 
pressed his muzzle briefly into Shadowpaw’s

shoulder, a comforting gesture. “Maybe it’s 
because the Moonpool is freezing over. Once it 
thaws, the StarClan cats will be stronger 
presences again.” 
Shadowpaw wished he could believe his 
mentor, but the other medicine cats were 
exchanging doubtful looks, and he wasn’t sure 
that even Puddleshine believed what he had just 
said. However, no cat spoke to contradict him. 
None of them seemed ready to talk about what 
had happened—they just headed back up the 
slope and out of the hollow, then said their 
farewells. 
Padding at Puddleshine’s side on the way 
back to ShadowClan, Shadowpaw still felt a 
worried tingle in his fur. If this has never 
happened before, why is it happening now? 
What does it mean? Turning to Puddleshine, he 
opened his jaws and began, “What do you—” 
But Puddleshine’s expression had grown 
somehow remote, as if he was turned in on

himself in thought. Shadowpaw didn’t know 
why, but he got the sense that this wasn’t the 
time to bother his mentor with an apprentice’s 
questions. 
Remembering the cloudy shapes and the 
distant voices, Shadowpaw felt a dark cloud 
hovering over him and all the Clans, as if a 
devastating storm were about to unleash itself. 
Once again he tried to tell himself that he was 
anxious because he didn’t have the others’ 
experience. He just needed more time to get 
used to it. 
Surely that’s all it is . . . right?

Chapter 2 
“Let all cats old enough to catch their own 
prey join here beneath the Tallrock for a Clan 
meeting!” 
Hearing Leafstar’s voice ring out clearly 
across the camp, Rootkit poked his head out of 
the nursery, then scampered out into the open. 
The SkyClan leader was standing on top of the 
massive boulder that reared up more than three 
tail-lengths in the center of the clearing. Its 
sides were blotched with yellow lichen. A split 
gaped open at the bottom; in the hollow space 
beyond it was where the Clan leader had her 
den.
As Rootkit hurried toward the Tallrock, 
another cat landed on top of him, carrying him 
off his paws and rolling him over on the pebbly 
surface of the camp floor. A joyful squeal 
sounded in his ear. “Got you!”

Not again, Needlekit! Rootkit thought with 
a sigh, recognizing his sister’s voice and her 
eyes gleaming a mouse-length from his own. 
Wriggling free, he gave her a swipe over her 
ear, keeping his claws sheathed. 
“Give up, mouse-brain,” he meowed. “I want 
to hear what Leafstar has to say.” 
Needlekit sat up, shaking dust and grit from 
her black-and-white pelt. “I know what she’s 
going to say,” she responded smugly. 
“So do I,” Rootkit retorted. 
Glancing around the camp, he saw more of 
his Clanmates emerging from their dens. 
Turtlepaw and Kitepaw pushed their way 
between the rocks that screened the 
apprentices’ den, then darted across the 
clearing to join their mentors, Blossomheart 
and Sagenose. The two warriors had just 
appeared from their den underneath the 
spreading branches of a massive hawthorn bush, 
closely followed by Plumwillow and the Clan

deputy, Hawkwing. Frecklewish and 
Fidgetflake, the two medicine cats, looked up 
from where they were sorting herbs outside 
their den between two boulders at the far side 
of the camp. 
“Do you know what day it is?” 
Rootkit turned at the sound of his mother’s 
voice to see Violetshine standing a couple of 
paces away, her body trembling with a purr as 
she gazed at him with shining eyes. 
“Of course I do,” Rootkit replied. 
“Needlekit and I are six moons old. Leafstar is 
going to make us apprentices.” 
Excitement rose inside Rootkit as he 
spoke, but he thrust it down determinedly. 
Every kit became an apprentice, but he knew 
that if he wanted to become a warrior, he would 
have to focus on his training and learn 
everything his mentor had to teach him. 
And I’m going to be the best warrior I can 
be!

“That’s right,” Violetshine responded to 
him. “And just look at you!” she added with a 
sigh. “Any cat would think you’d been dragged 
backward through a thorn thicket!” 
Rootkit hunched his shoulders while his 
mother covered him with fierce licks, 
smoothing down his pelt. Meanwhile Needlekit 
gave herself a quick grooming and sat with her 
tail curled neatly around her forepaws. 
“Cats of SkyClan,” Leafstar began when the 
whole Clan had assembled in a ragged half 
circle in front of the Tallrock. “This is an 
important day in the life of a Clan, when we 
make new apprentices.” She leaped down from 
the Tallrock and beckoned Rootkit with a swish 
of her tail. “Rootkit, come here, please.” 
Suddenly feeling that his legs were wobbly 
and wouldn’t support him, Rootkit tottered 
forward until he stood in front of his Clan 
leader. Leafstar rested her tail on his shoulder. 
“From this day forward,” she announced,

“this apprentice will be known as Rootpaw. 
Dewspring, you are an efficient and loyal cat. 
You will be Rootpaw’s mentor, and I know you 
will pass your excellent qualities on to him.” 
Rootpaw ducked his head respectfully to 
Leafstar and bounded across the circle of cats 
to join the sturdy gray tom, who waited for him 
with a pleased expression on his broad face. 
Stretching up to touch noses with him, 
Rootpaw mewed, “I’ll work really hard, I 
promise!” 
“I’m sure you will,” Dewspring responded. 
“Rootpaw! Rootpaw!” 
Embarrassment flooded through Rootpaw 
as he heard the Clan acclaim him with his new 
name, but he felt strangely pleased, too. This is 
the real beginning of my life in the Clan. 
He stood beside his mentor while Leafstar 
called Needlekit to her and gave her the name 
Needlepaw, apprenticing her to Reedclaw. 
“Needlepaw! Needlepaw!” he yowled with

the rest of his Clan. 
Gazing around at the cats cheering for his 
sister, Rootpaw saw excitement in their shining 
eyes and waving tails, and encouragement for 
both of them as they stood at the beginning of 
their warrior training. This Clan is the best! It’s 
great to belong here! 
Rootpaw’s happiness faded as he spotted 
his father, Tree, sitting at the edge of the circle 
with his paws tucked under him and an 
expression of curious, almost amused, 
detachment. 
Isn’t he proud of me? Doesn’t he care that 
I’ve just been made an apprentice? 
But Rootpaw reflected that the detached air 
was just typical of his father. Tree always 
seemed bemused by Clan life, as though, even 
after living among them for so many moons, he 
still didn’t really understand them. 
“Hey, congratulations!” Kitepaw bounded 
over to Rootpaw and gave him a friendly shove.

“You’re one of us now.” 
Rootpaw ducked his head. “Thanks.” 
“Yeah, your mother looks really proud,” 
Turtlepaw added, coming to join them with 
Needlepaw beside her. “Not so much your 
father, though.” 
Her tone was teasing, but the comment 
pierced Rootpaw like a thorn, all the sharper 
because he had just been thinking the exact 
same thing. His fur bristled with indignation. 
“Tree is proud of us,” he insisted. “He just 
has a funny way of showing it.” 
Needlepaw’s fur was bushing up, too, and 
she narrowed her eyes as she glared at 
Turtlepaw. “Not every cat has to be the same,” 
she hissed. 
“Keep your fur on,” Kitepaw meowed. 
“Turtlepaw was only joking. You have to admit, 
your father is weird.” 
“Weird is good!” Needlepaw flashed back at 
him. “Tree’s the best cat in the forest at settling

quarrels.” Tree had been designated the Clans’ 
mediator, the only one in all five Clans. 
“He hasn’t done that lately, though, has he?” 
Kitepaw asked. 
“That’s because there haven’t been any 
quarrels,” Rootpaw retorted. “We’re at peace 
with the other Clans. And we have Tree to thank 
for a lot of that.” 
“If you say so,” Kitepaw mewed goodhumoredly. 
“Come on, let’s go to our den and 
we’ll help you make nests.” 
Rootpaw relaxed a little, letting his fur lie 
flat. He was about to follow Kitepaw and 
Turtlepaw when he remembered that he ought 
to ask his mentor for permission first. He 
turned to Dewspring, but before he could 
speak, the gray tom gave him a brisk nod. 
“When you’ve done that,” he instructed, 
“help yourself to a piece of fresh-kill, and then 
come and find me. We’ll do your first tour of 
the territory.”

“You too,” Reedclaw, who was standing 
close by, added to Needlepaw. “We’ll all go 
together.” 
“Great!” Needlepaw squealed, then ducked 
her head, clearly embarrassed at behaving like a 
kit. 
She bounded across the camp, hard on the 
paws of Turtlepaw and Kitepaw, and Rootpaw 
headed after them. 
When they had made nests for themselves 
in their new den, Rootpaw and Needlepaw sat 
crouched beside the fresh-kill pile. Rootpaw 
spotted Tree, who finally rose to his paws and 
strolled toward them. He had to pass the 
entrance to the nursery, where Bellaleaf and 
Wrenkit were drowsing in the pale leaf-bare 
sunlight. Rootpaw noticed that as Tree passed, 
Wrenkit jumped up, shivering, and pressed 
herself closer to her mother’s side. Bellaleaf 
wrapped her tail around her kit’s shoulders and 
followed Tree with a hostile green glare as he

padded past. 
I know what that’s about! Rootpaw 
thought, stifling a groan. 
He couldn’t blame Bellaleaf for not liking 
Tree and keeping her kit away from him. 
Wrenkit was the only one of Bellaleaf’s litter 
who’d survived. The sadness had been felt 
across the whole Clan, and it had only been 
made worse when Tree insisted that the two 
unnamed kits who had died were still close to 
Wrenkit, watching over her. Wrenkit had been 
terrified, and the rest of the Clan had been 
annoyed with Tree. 
And I’d never been so embarrassed in my 
life!
“So, apprentices now,” Tree remarked as he 
joined Rootpaw and Needlepaw and began 
scanning the fresh-kill pile for a juicy piece of 
prey. “Yes, it’s great!” Needlepaw, who hadn’t 
spotted Wrenkit’s reaction, looked up from the

blackbird she was devouring. “We’re going to 
tour the territory when we’ve eaten.” 
“Good,” Tree mewed. “Remember what I’ve 
told you about fighting foxes.” 
“Yes!” Needlepaw let out a little mrrow of 
laughter. “Don’t!” 
Rootpaw kept his gaze firmly fixed on his 
mouse. Why can’t Tree give us some useful 
advice, like other fathers? 
A moment later he felt a paw prodding him 
in the side. “What’s the matter with you?” Tree 
asked. 
“Nothing,” Rootpaw mumbled, taking 
another bite of fresh-kill. 
“And hedgehogs fly,” his father retorted. 
“Come on, tell me.” 
Rootpaw let out a sigh, knowing that Tree 
wouldn’t give up until he explained himself. 
“It’s just . . . the way Wrenkit acts around you,” 
he muttered. “You shouldn’t have told her about 
seeing her dead littermates. She’s so little; it

just freaked her out.” 
“I thought it would help,” Tree responded, 
shaking his head in exasperation. “I thought 
she’d like to know that they were still close to 
her, watching over her, until they left to go to 
StarClan.” 
“She didn’t understand!” Rootpaw snapped. 
Unable to stop himself, he added, “Other cats 
don’t say weird stuff like that!” 
He glanced up at his father and saw a hurt 
look in Tree’s eyes. “I raised you to think for 
yourself,” Tree meowed. “I don’t want you just 
going along blindly with the ways of the Clan. 
They’re good ways, but they’re not the answer 
to everything.” 
Rootpaw didn’t respond, but just gulped 
down the last scraps of his mouse. He knew his 
father was wrong with every hair on his pelt, but 
he couldn’t find the words to explain why. I 
hope my apprenticeship goes quickly, he 
thought. He couldn’t wait to be a warrior and

prove that he was totally committed to his Clan. 
When they see that I’m not like my father, 
maybe my Clanmates will stop treating me 
like I’m weird too. 
Rootpaw scrambled to his paws, shaking 
drops of dew from his pelt. Strands of mist still 
floated among the trees, and the grass in the 
clearing was heavy with moisture. 
Not the best morning for Dewspring to 
show me his fighting moves! We’ll get soaked 
to the bone. 
Two days had passed since Rootpaw and 
Needlepaw had been made apprentices, and 
Rootpaw had been excited to go out at dawn 
with his sister and their mentors for their first 
session of battle training. But it wasn’t working 
out how he had hoped. 
“Let’s try it again,” Dewspring meowed, 
“and remember what I told you. If a cat has you 
pinned down, the best way to escape is to go

limp. Let your opponent think you’ve given up. 
Then explode out of their grip, as fast as you 
can. Okay?” 
Rootpaw nodded. “Okay.” 
Dewspring leaped at him, knocking him off 
his paws, then held him down with one paw on 
his neck and another on his back. Rootpaw let 
himself go limp. But as he prepared to spring 
upward, he heard a yowl of triumph from across 
the clearing. Kitepaw and Turtlepaw were 
training with their mentors, leaping and twisting 
in the air. Kitepaw had just managed to knock 
Turtlepaw’s paws from under her and land on 
top of her with his jaws at her throat. 
“Well done,” his mentor, Sagenose, praised 
him.
I’ll never be able to do that, Rootpaw 
thought. 
“Whenever you’re ready.” Dewspring’s 
voice held an edge of irritation. “Your opponent 
has had time to claw your fur off.”

“Sorry,” Rootpaw muttered. 
He waited for a couple of heartbeats and 
then powered upward with all his strength. But 
instead of leaping clear of his mentor, he 
flopped clumsily back to the ground, jerked 
downward by Dewspring, who had both his paws 
firmly fixed on his tail, trapping him. 
Just like the other times I tried it, Rootpaw 
thought, giving his pelt a shake as Dewspring 
released him. It’s all Kitepaw’s fault. I could 
do it if I weren’t distracted. 
He felt even worse as he saw Needlepaw 
hurl herself into the air, flip Reedclaw away 
from her, and land on all four paws with a 
triumphant lash of her tail. 
“That’s enough for now,” Dewspring 
meowed; Rootpaw could hear the weariness in 
his voice. “We’ll try it again tomorrow when 
you’re ready to pay attention. Meanwhile, you 
and Needlepaw can practice together.” 
Rootpaw just nodded, too embarrassed to

say anything. 
“Hey, Dewspring!” Blossomheart called 
from the other side of the clearing. “If you’ve 
finished your training session, do you want to 
go hunting?” 
“Sure,” Dewspring replied, with a glance at 
Reedclaw. “We’re all done here.” 
His pelt hot with shame, Rootpaw watched 
as the four mentors went off together. 
Needlepaw padded up to him and touched her 
nose briefly to his shoulder. “It’ll be okay,” she 
murmured. “Let’s practice. You’ll get it soon.” 
“I don’t think I’ll ever get it,” Rootpaw 
responded bitterly. 
“You’re waiting too long.” Turtlepaw’s 
voice broke into the conversation as she and 
Kitepaw crossed the clearing to join Rootpaw 
and Needlepaw. “And you have to be sure that 
you don’t brace your muscles before you leap. 
That warns your opponent what you’re going to 
do.”

Rootpaw gave her a nod of thanks, but 
before he could reply, Kitepaw interrupted him. 
“Or you might just decide to follow a 
different path in life,” the older apprentice 
added, a sparkle of malice in his eyes. 
“What do you mean by that?” Rootpaw 
asked, his pelt beginning to prickle with 
hostility. 
“Maybe the reason you’re having such 
problems with training is that you’re not meant 
to be a warrior. Maybe you’re meant to be the 
kind of cat who talks to dead cats. After all, 
your father has his ‘ways,’ right?” Kitepaw 
sounded amused. 
Fury swelled inside Rootpaw, and he felt 
his shoulder fur bushing up. He drew his lips 
back in a snarl. “Don’t talk to me like that!” 
“Or else what?” Kitepaw taunted him. 
Rootpaw took a pace forward. “Or else I’ll 
claw your ears off!” 
“Hey!” Turtlepaw shouldered her way

between the two toms. “You’ll get in trouble for 
fighting. And it’s not like you’d win,” she added 
sneeringly to Rootpaw. 
Her mockery stripped away the last of 
Rootpaw’s self-control. Letting out a furious 
screech, he launched himself at the 
tortoiseshell she-cat. He heard Needlepaw 
yowl his name, but he ignored her, sliding out 
his claws and stretching his forepaws to swipe 
at Turtlepaw. 
His blow never landed. Turtlepaw 
sidestepped quickly and hooked Rootpaw’s 
paws out from under him; he thumped to the 
ground, the breath driven out of his body. 
Turtlepaw stood over him, her forepaws on his 
neck and belly. 
Rootpaw let out a furious hiss, then went 
limp, remembering the move Dewspring had 
demonstrated. But when he tried to leap 
upward, he only crashed back down, and twisted 
around to see Turtlepaw with her paws on his

tail and a smug expression on her face. 
“You should know better than to attack us,” 
she mewed. “We’re older than you, and better 
fighters. And don’t lash out at us just because 
Kitepaw is right. Maybe you should go be weird 
somewhere else!” 
She stood back, letting Rootpaw scramble 
to his paws. He felt as though his fur were on 
fire with anger and embarrassment, even though 
none of the warriors had seen Turtlepaw 
overpower him. 
“I will become a strong warrior,” he 
insisted. “I’ll be important to the Clan. I’m not 
weird.” Not like Tree, he added to himself. 
The two older apprentices exchanged a 
knowing look. 
“Okay, if you want to prove yourself, maybe 
you can help us,” Kitepaw suggested. 
“Rootpaw, no!” Needlepaw padded up to his 
side. “Dewspring told you to practice,” she 
added urgently. “You don’t want to get mixed up

with these stupid furballs. They’ll only trick 
you somehow.” 
Part of Rootpaw’s mind told him that his 
sister was right. But he could just imagine the 
taunts he would receive from the two older 
apprentices if he backed down now. 
“I can take care of myself,” he spat. “Okay, 
Kitepaw, what do you want me to do?” 
“We’re going on an expedition down to the 
lake,” Kitepaw replied. “There are supposed to 
be herbs down there that Frecklewish and 
Fidgetflake need for their stores. If we can get 
some, we’ll show we’re ready to be warriors— 
maybe we’ll even be given our warrior names! 
Are you brave enough to come with us?” 
“Sure I am,” Rootpaw responded. 
“Rootpaw, don’t be a mouse-brain,” 
Needlepaw begged. “You’ll only get into 
trouble if Dewspring finds out.” 
Rootpaw felt a worm of uncertainty stir in 
his belly. Dewspring is fed up with me already

—I don’t want to make things worse. But then 
he saw the gleam of mockery in the eyes of the 
older apprentices. “I don’t care,” he told his 
sister. “Besides, Dewspring won’t find out. Not 
unless you tell him.” 
Needlepaw looked hurt at the idea that she 
would give him away. “I won’t,” she mewed. 
“But I think you’ve got bees in your brain.” 
Turning away, she stalked off in the 
direction of the camp. For a heartbeat Rootpaw 
wanted to go after her, to tell her he was sorry 
for upsetting her. But he knew he couldn’t back 
down in front of the other apprentices. 
“Okay, let’s go,” Kitepaw ordered. 
Rootpaw followed the reddish-brown tom 
as he headed toward the lake, with Turtlepaw 
bringing up the rear. With every paw step he felt 
the air grow colder and colder. He couldn’t 
help shivering, as if icy claws were probing 
deep into his fur. 
“Are you a scaredy-mouse?” Turtlepaw

teased him. “Do you want to go back to the nice 
warm nursery?” 
“I’m not scared,” Rootpaw insisted, glaring 
at her over his shoulder. “I’m just cold.” 
“Sure you are,” Turtlepaw retorted with a 
mrrow of laughter. 
However, though he would have rather died 
than admit it, Rootpaw couldn’t help feeling 
daunted when he and the other apprentices 
emerged from the trees and stood on the top of 
a bank that sloped down toward the lakeshore. A 
gray waste of water lay in front of him, whipped 
into waves by the icy wind that swept over it. At 
the water’s edge the gray was turning to white 
as the lake froze, the ice stretching several taillengths 
from the pebbly beach. 
“Right,” Rootpaw meowed. “Let’s start 
looking for these herbs.” 
He flattened himself to the ground and 
crept forward to look underneath a straggly 
thornbush where he could spot some surviving

green growth, only to halt a moment later at the 
sound of a snort of laughter from behind him. 
He wriggled around to face the other 
apprentices. 
“What do you think you’re doing?” Kitepaw 
asked, his tail curling up with amusement. “We 
haven’t told you what we’re looking for, so how 
do you think you’re going to find it?” 
Another hot wave of embarrassment swept 
over Rootpaw, almost banishing the chill from 
the wind. “I’m only trying to be helpful,” he 
protested indignantly, scrambling out from 
beneath the bush. “If all you can do is mock, 
you can find your own herbs!” 
He spun around, intending to storm off 
back to camp, but Kitepaw intercepted him. 
“What’s wrong?” he asked. “Can’t you take a 
bit of teasing? What sort of warrior are you 
going to be if you get upset at something as 
trivial as that?” 
Rootpaw dug his claws deep into the

ground. Every muscle in his body was taut with 
fury, and he wanted more than anything to hurl 
himself at Kitepaw and wipe the sneering look 
off his face. But he realized that the older 
apprentice was deliberately goading him. 
He probably enjoyed seeing me beaten 
when I attacked Turtlepaw, and he wants to 
see it again. Well, I’m not going to give him 
the satisfaction. 
Rootpaw’s heart was thumping in his chest 
from tension and fury as he raised his head, 
summoning every scrap of dignity, and stepped 
carefully around Kitepaw on his way back to 
camp. He felt vulnerable, standing up to an 
older cat, and though he wanted to swipe his 
claws across Kitepaw’s muzzle, he knew that he 
would lose. 
And if Dewspring heard about that, I’d be 
in trouble for sure! 
“That’s right!” Turtlepaw called after him. 
“Sneak back into the nursery! Go and tell your

mother that the horrid cats were nasty to you!” 
“Are you sure you’re smart and brave 
enough to be a warrior?” Kitepaw added. “Don’t 
you think you’d be better off going to talk to 
invisible dead cats?” 
Hot rage overwhelmed Rootpaw, burning up 
his resolve of a few moments before. He 
whipped around. “I’ll show you I’m fit to be a 
warrior!” he yowled, charging straight at the 
other two apprentices with teeth bared and 
claws unsheathed. 
Kitepaw and Turtlepaw dodged out of his 
way. Rootpaw was running so fast that he 
couldn’t stop himself; he sped past them and 
down the bank toward the lake. Struggling to 
slow down, to halt, he felt his paws patter on 
the stretch of pebbles at the water’s edge, then 
skid out onto the ice. He tried to dig in his 
claws as he slid toward the water, but he could 
only gaze in horror as he saw cracks open up on 
the surface. He flinched at the freezing touch

of dark water welling up around his paws. A 
heartbeat later he let out a screech of terror as 
the ice gave way and he plunged down into the 
lake.

Chapter 3 
Bristlepaw tasted the air as she followed her 
mentor, Rosepetal, through the undergrowth. 
Beyond the edge of the trees she could hear the 
wash of waves and feel the chilly wind that blew 
from the lake right into the depths of her fur. If 
only we could find some prey! she thought. 
The whole of ThunderClan is going hungry. 
But in spite of her worries, she raised her 
head and tail with pride at being out on patrol 
with Rosepetal and two other warriors, 
especially when one of them was Stemleaf. 
Watching him now, crouching beside a bush 
where he thought he had scented a mouse, she 
admired his sleek orange-and-white fur and the 
alert angle of his ears as he listened for his 
prey. Does he ever notice me? Bristlepaw 
wondered. He said I made a great catch when

I killed that squirrel yesterday. But I don’t just 
want him to think I’m a good apprentice. I 
want him to be impressed with me. 
A sudden yowling from the direction of the 
lake distracted Bristlepaw from her thoughts. 
At the same moment Stemleaf pounced under 
the bush and let out a hiss of fury. “Fox dung! 
I’d have had the mouse, but that racket scared it 
off.”
“Something’s wrong!” Rosepetal exclaimed 
as the yowling continued. “Come on!” 
“But that’s SkyClan territory,” Eaglewing, 
the fourth member of the patrol, protested as 
all four cats raced toward the lake. 
Rosepetal glanced over her shoulder at the 
ginger she-cat. “We help cats in trouble, no 
matter what their Clan,” she retorted. 
Bristlepaw thought that she could pick up 
SkyClan scent coming from the direction of 
the lake, but the bitterly cold wind whipping 
around her made it hard to be certain. A few

heartbeats later, bursting out of the trees, she 
saw that she had been right. Farther down the 
shore, beyond the SkyClan border, two cats 
were running to and fro along the water’s edge. 
The terrified yowling came from them. 
Out in the lake, a third cat was trapped in 
the freezing water. He was clawing frantically 
at the edge of the ice, but it kept breaking under 
the weight of his paws, and his struggles 
seemed to be driving him farther away from the 
shore. Each time his head dipped under the 
water, it took him longer to fight his way back 
to the surface. Soon, Bristlepaw realized, he 
would vanish beneath the ice for good. 
Instinctively, Bristlepaw bounded forward, 
outpacing her Clanmates. Reaching the edge of 
the lake, she took a deep breath, bracing herself 
to stop her limbs from trembling. StarClan, 
help me! she prayed. Aloud she called, “Hang 
on! I’m coming!” 
Rosepetal’s voice came from somewhere

behind her. “No! Bristlepaw, come back!” 
Bristlepaw ignored her. Venturing out onto 
the ice, she lay flat and splayed out her legs to 
spread her weight as much as possible, and she 
forced herself to ignore the shock of cold 
penetrating her fur. Pushing herself forward 
with tiny movements of her claws, she headed 
for the struggling cat. She could feel the ice 
straining under her weight, but it held until she 
could reach the edge and stretch out her neck 
to grab the SkyClan cat’s scruff as he sank 
under the surface. 
Gradually Bristlepaw edged backward, 
dragging the other cat with her. The ice began 
to break up around them under their combined 
weight, but when it finally gave way, Bristlepaw 
realized that the water was shallow enough for 
her to stand. She let go of the other cat’s scruff 
and boosted him with her shoulder so that he 
could stagger to the bank. Bristlepaw let out a 
gusty sigh of relief as she followed him and

collapsed in a heap beside him on the pebbles. 
She was shivering, and not only from cold. 
I’m lucky that I didn’t drown, too! 
“Bristlepaw, are you completely mousebrained?” 
Rosepetal came to stand by her 
apprentice, her voice as freezing as the wind 
and her eyes like chips of amber ice. “I told you 
to come back. I should have you dealing with 
the elders’ ticks for six moons at least.” Her 
voice grew gentler, almost changing to a purr. 
“I’d do it, too, if you hadn’t been so brave.” 
“I had to,” Bristlepaw explained, warmed by 
her mentor’s praise. “I’m the lightest of us. 
Besides, he would have died if I’d left him 
there.” As she turned to the cat she had 
rescued, her warmth gave way to sharp 
irritation. “You stupid furball!” she exclaimed. 
“What were you doing out there on the thin 
ice?” The cat—he looked barely older than a kit 
—raised his head to gaze at her. His eyes were

full of gratitude. “I’m sorry,” he gasped. “It was 
an accident. I’m lucky you came along.” 
The two other SkyClan cats had approached 
and were looking down at their Clanmate. 
Bristlepaw recognized them as two apprentices 
she had seen at the last Gathering: Kitepaw and 
Turtlepaw. 
“It was partly our fault,” Turtlepaw 
admitted. 
“Yeah, we’re sorry,” Kitepaw added, 
ducking his head in shame. 
“And so you should be,” Rosepetal snapped, 
turning her furious gaze on the two apprentices. 
“How much help do you think you were, 
running up and down and yowling like a pair of 
foxes in a fit?” 
The youngest apprentice nodded, and 
Bristlepaw noticed that, even drenched and 
shaking, he had summoned a gleam of 
appreciation at Rosepetal’s scolding. 
Rosepetal turned to gaze down at him and

went on, “Who are you, anyway? I don’t think 
I’ve seen you at a Gathering.” 
The apprentice tottered to his paws. “I’m 
Rootkit,” he said, shivering. “I mean— 
Rootpaw.” 
Rosepetal tilted her head, studying him. 
“Are you Violetshine’s kit?” she asked. 
“Hawkwing’s kin? Look at you—you’re 
shivering so hard, and there’s ice in your fur. 
We’d better get you back to the ThunderClan 
camp so our medicine cats can take a look at 
you.” 
“No!” Rootpaw protested. “We’re SkyClan 
cats.” 
“But the ThunderClan camp is much 
closer,” Rosepetal insisted. “It makes much 
more sense to go there.” 
“But—” Rootpaw began. 
Losing patience, Bristlepaw bent over 
Rootpaw and pushed her face close to his. 
“Don’t be mouse-brained,” she hissed. “You

would freeze to death before you got back to 
your own camp.” 
Rootpaw hesitated a heartbeat longer, then 
nodded. 
“I’ll come with you,” Kitepaw meowed. 
“Turtlepaw, you’d better go back to camp and 
let them know what happened.” 
Turtlepaw gulped, as if she wasn’t looking 
forward to that. “Okay,” she agreed. “We’re 
sorry, Rootpaw.” Without waiting for a 
response, she bounded off through the trees. 
Bristlepaw steadied Rootpaw on one side, 
with Kitepaw on the other, as Rosepetal led the 
way back across the SkyClan border and toward 
the ThunderClan camp. The young apprentice 
looked embarrassed that he couldn’t walk by 
himself. But there’s no shame in that, 
Bristlepaw thought. Not after you nearly 
drowned. Any cat would need help. 
Stemleaf, who was padding just ahead of the 
three apprentices, glanced back over his

shoulder at Bristlepaw. “You did really well,” he 
mewed. “That was so impressive, how you 
saved Rootpaw.” 
Bristlepaw dipped her head. “Thanks, 
Stemleaf.” Now that the emergency was over, 
she was beginning to feel the tingles of unease 
that she should have felt when she was out there 
on the ice. I’ll have nightmares about that for 
moons! 
But she didn’t want to seem weak in front 
of a warrior—especially when that warrior was 
Stemleaf. “It was nothing, really,” she added. 
Even though the icy wind was freezing her 
wet pelt, even though she felt more exhausted 
with every paw step, Stemleaf’s praise warmed 
her and made her want to go bounding through 
the forest, yowling out her joy. What Stemleaf 
had said to her meant more than any cat’s 
praise. More even than Rosepetal’s. 
Eaglewing had run ahead to warn the

ThunderClan medicine cats, so by the time 
Rosepetal’s patrol returned, Alderheart was 
already waiting for them. He bustled Rootpaw 
into the medicine cats’ den without asking for 
any more details. 
Following them, Bristlepaw poked her head 
around the bramble tendrils that screened the 
entrance of the den, to see Rootpaw already 
flopped down in a nest of moss and bracken. 
Alderheart was busily licking his fur the wrong 
way to get his blood flowing and warm him up. 
She heard Jayfeather’s voice coming from the 
shadows at the back of the den. 
“Thyme leaves for shock, and maybe one 
poppy seed, to be sure he gets some sleep.” 
Reassured that Rootpaw would be cared for, 
Bristlepaw withdrew to discover that her 
littermates, Thriftpaw and Flippaw, had bounded 
up behind her, their eyes alight with eagerness. 
“What happened?” Thriftpaw demanded. 
“Rosepetal said you rescued that SkyClan

apprentice!” 
For a moment Bristlepaw scuffled her 
forepaws in the earth floor of the camp, briefly 
embarrassed to tell her denmates about her own 
bravery. 
Flippaw gave her a friendly shove. “Come 
on! Spit it out!” 
Forcing herself to be calm, Bristlepaw told 
her story, determined not to exaggerate to 
make herself sound better. She saw her 
denmates’ eyes grow wider and wider as she 
spoke. 
“Wow, that was brave!” Thriftpaw exclaimed 
when she had finished. 
“They should make you a warrior right 
away,” Flippaw declared. 
“Not yet, but that was still very impressive.” 
Bristlepaw turned her head at the sound of a 
new voice joining in, and let out a gasp to see 
Bramblestar padding up. “Very well done, 
Bristlepaw,” he finished.

Bristlepaw dipped her head respectfully to 
her Clan leader. “Thank you, Bramblestar.” 
“I’ve got another job for you, if you’re not 
too tired,” Bramblestar continued. “I’m sending 
a patrol to SkyClan, to bring Leafstar up to date 
about Rootpaw’s condition. She needs to know 
that he’s being cared for, and that we’ll send 
him home as soon as he’s well enough. I’d like 
you to go with them.” 
Bristlepaw turned to see Rosepetal and 
Stemleaf standing side by side a couple of taillengths 
away. All her tiredness fell away from 
her. She felt as if she could run all the way 
around the lake, three times, without stopping. 
I’ll be part of a mission to another Clan—and 
I’ll be with Stemleaf. 
“Oh, yes, Bramblestar!” she replied. “I’d be 
glad to go.” 
When Bristlepaw and the two warriors set 
out through the forest toward SkyClan territory,

the wind seemed stronger than ever. Sometimes 
the gusts were so fierce that they were almost 
blown off their paws. 
“I’ve had enough of this,” Rosepetal 
muttered when they were almost halfway to the 
border. “Let’s find somewhere to shelter for a 
bit.”
“I don’t mind going on,” Bristlepaw 
protested, afraid that her mentor was 
suggesting a rest for her sake. 
Stemleaf flicked her ear gently with his 
tail-tip. “You don’t have to be the bravest cat in 
the Clan all the time,” he mewed teasingly. 
At the same moment Rosepetal angled her 
ears toward a holly bush that grew at the bottom 
of a steep rise. “Under there would be good. 
Come on.” 
I guess it’s okay to stop for a little while, 
Bristlepaw thought as she followed her mentor 
and wriggled underneath the branches into the 
warm layer of debris beneath. And it does feel

good to be out of the wind. 
Crouching beside Stemleaf beneath the 
holly bush, watching dead leaves whirl past, 
Bristlepaw couldn’t remember when she had 
been this happy. Even the wind bringing light 
flurries of snow, dappling their pelts with faint 
blotches of white, couldn’t destroy her buoyant 
mood. 
“Will it be this cold every leaf-bare?” she 
asked Stemleaf. 
The orange-and-white tom shrugged. “I 
don’t know,” he replied. “I’ve heard some of the 
elders say this is the coldest leaf-bare they 
remember.” 
Rosepetal, who had been gazing out into the 
forest, scrambled to her paws. “The wind is 
dropping,” she mewed. “We should get going.” 
Bristlepaw and Stemleaf followed her out 
of their shelter into the buffeting wind. Before 
they had gone very far, Bristlepaw picked up the 
faint scent of prey, and she spotted a wagtail

fluttering to the ground between two massive 
trees. 
“Should I try to catch it?” she murmured to 
Rosepetal. 
Her mentor nodded. “Let’s see your hunting 
moves.” 
Stemleaf swiped his tongue around his 
jaws. “The Clan has been fed,” he mewed. “No 
cat will mind if we stop for a little snack.” 
Bristlepaw dropped into a hunter’s crouch 
and began to creep slowly toward the wagtail, 
setting each paw down as lightly as she could 
and keeping her tail tucked in to her side. From 
the corner of her eye she could glimpse 
Stemleaf, working his way around in a wide 
circle to approach the wagtail from the other 
side. For a moment she was dismayed, 
wondering if Stemleaf thought she wouldn’t 
make the catch, but then she realized he was 
only positioning himself to drive the bird 
toward her. The thought warmed her to the tips

of her claws. 
The wagtail seemed unaware that danger 
was close. It was stabbing its beak into debris at 
the foot of one of the trees, looking for 
insects. But as Bristlepaw halted, waggling her 
hindquarters in readiness for her pounce, 
something alerted her prey. It let out a harsh 
alarm call and fluttered upward. At the same 
moment, Stemleaf sprang forward. The wagtail 
veered away from him, and Bristlepaw was able 
to leap up and snag it in her claws. Its wings 
flapped wildly against her chest as she landed, 
and she killed it with a swift bite behind its 
head. 
“Great catch!” Rosepetal exclaimed. 
“Stemleaf helped,” Bristlepaw responded, 
blinking happily at the orange-and-white tom as 
he padded up. We make a great team, she added 
to herself. 
“You’ve got the makings of a fine hunter,” 
Stemleaf said as all three cats crouched down

to share the wagtail. “In fact, between that and 
your bravery when you rescued Rootpaw, 
you’re going to be quite a strong warrior one 
day.”
At first Bristlepaw couldn’t find the words 
to reply, but delight filled her until she couldn’t 
even feel the cold anymore. Though Stemleaf 
was young, she knew that the Clan already 
respected him as a strong and capable warrior. 
If he believes in me, then I know I’ll be 
able to achieve my dream. 
“I want to be one of the best warriors in 
ThunderClan,” she meowed to Stemleaf. 
“I’m sure you will be,” he purred. 
A picture flickered across Bristlepaw’s 
mind: an imagined future where she and 
Stemleaf were striding through the forest, 
warriors and mates, side by side. 
We’ll be the strongest pair in the whole 
Clan. . . .

Chapter 4 
Grassheart’s body jerked as cough after 
cough battered at her. Eventually the pale tabby 
she-cat collapsed into her nest in the medicine 
cats’ den, where she lay stretched out among 
the bracken, her eyes closed and her body 
shaken from time to time by more fits of 
coughing. 
Shadowpaw bent over her limp form, 
sniffing her carefully from ears to tail-tip. “It’s 
not greencough yet,” he reported to 
Puddleshine when he finished his examination. 
“But if this cold weather doesn’t let up, it could 
easily change to greencough. She’s worse than 
she was yesterday.” 
Puddleshine’s voice came from the 
shadows at the back of the den. “An outbreak of 
whitecough is the last thing we need, much less 
greencough,” he meowed. “We’re getting low

on catmint, and even whitecough could be 
dangerous in this StarClan-cursed cold.” 
Shadowpaw hardly paid any attention to his 
mentor’s grumbling. His mind kept flying back 
to the half-moon meeting at the Moonpool, and 
the hazy, indistinct visions of their warrior 
ancestors. The distant voices, crying out to the 
living cats, had haunted his dreams ever since, 
along with an upsetting theory. 
I wonder if it was my fault that we 
couldn’t reach StarClan. 
The young tom had always been aware that 
there was something different about him. Since 
he was a kit, before he was apprenticed to 
Puddleshine, he had received odd, unusually 
strong visions, ones even medicine cats 
couldn’t explain. Often these visions were 
accompanied by seizures. And sometimes they 
were about cats who had nothing to do with 
ShadowClan. 
It wasn’t a bad thing . . . but it was strange. It

wasn’t how medicine cats’ visions usually 
worked. Did that make him somehow 
unsuitable to follow the way of a medicine cat? 
And worse . . . was it upsetting StarClan enough 
to turn them away? 
He felt a heavy weight in his belly at the 
thought that StarClan might be rejecting him. 
“Shadowpaw!” 
His mentor’s voice, close to his ear, 
startled Shadowpaw. He turned his head to see 
that Puddleshine had emerged from the 
shadows and was standing beside him with an 
irritated look in his eyes. 
“You haven’t heard a word I’ve said, have 
you?” Puddleshine demanded. 
“Er . . . catmint?” Shadowpaw guessed 
wildly. 
“Yes, I said we’ll have to go into the 
Twolegplace to get some,” his mentor told him. 
He hesitated, and then went on. “Shadowpaw, it 
isn’t like you to be daydreaming. Is something

wrong?” 
“Wrong—no!” Shadowpaw didn’t dare 
confess his fears. In the past, Puddleshine had 
been supportive, but he couldn’t forget how 
silent and tense his mentor had seemed after 
the half-moon meeting. What if Puddleshine 
agreed with him, and sent him back to the 
apprentices’ den to train to be a warrior? 
“Everything’s fine.” 
Puddleshine let out a disbelieving snort, but 
his voice was kind as he mewed, “You can tell 
me. That’s what I’m here for.” 
Shadowpaw flicked an ear, thinking quickly. 
“I was thinking about the meeting, when our 
StarClan ancestors didn’t come to speak to us 
the way they were supposed to,” Shadowpaw 
admitted, stopping short of telling Puddleshine 
his worst fears. “Does that mean they aren’t 
watching over us anymore?” 
Puddleshine shook his head. “No, of course 
not. StarClan is always with us. It must be the

Moonpool—I’ve never seen it iced over 
before, so it must be affecting our connection 
with our ancestors. Once it warms up again, 
things should get better.” 
Shadowpaw looked at his paws. He hoped 
the problem would be that simple. He was 
reassured to learn that Puddleshine thought so. 
Outside in the camp he could hear the 
cheerful voices of his littermates, Pouncestep 
and Lightleap; they had obviously just returned 
from a border patrol. 
“I’m starving! I thought we’d never get to 
the end,” Pouncestep announced. 
“Me too!” Lightleap agreed. “But we made a 
good job of those scent markers. SkyClan 
won’t dare set paw over our borders.” 
Shadowpaw sighed. His sisters sounded 
much more confident as warriors than he felt as 
a medicine-cat apprentice. 
“We’ve done all we can here,” Puddleshine 
continued. “I’m going on a foraging expedition

to see if I can find some catmint. Why don’t 
you take a break? Talk to your friends, get 
yourself a piece of fresh-kill.” 
“What about Grassheart?” Shadowpaw 
asked, glancing toward the sick she-cat. 
“Grassheart will be fine for a while,” 
Puddleshine assured him. “Off you go, and have 
a mouse ready for me when I get back.” He 
raced off and disappeared down the bramble 
tunnel that formed the entrance to the camp. 
Shadowpaw followed him as far as the pool 
at the bottom of the hollow, where he paused to 
lap at the water. Ice was forming on its edges, 
too, and Shadowpaw wondered how long it 
would take to completely freeze, like the 
Moonpool. Then he spotted his mother, 
Dovewing, weaving twigs into the branches of 
the den she shared with Tigerstar. 
“Hi,” he mewed, bounding over to join her. 
“Can I help?” 
“If you like,” Dovewing replied, pushing a

few twigs toward him. “We need every defense 
we can get against this icy wind.” 
“When will this leaf-bare pass?” 
Shadowpaw asked his mother as he fitted the 
flexible twigs into place. “It seems to have 
gone on forever.” 
“You’ve lived through a leaf-bare before,” 
Dovewing told him. “Don’t you remember?” 
Shadowpaw shook his head. “Not really. I 
can remember some of the journey from the 
big Twolegplace, with Spiresight and the other 
cats, but nothing about the weather.” 
“It was pretty cold, but not as bad as this,” 
Dovewing meowed. “But this leaf-bare won’t 
last forever, I promise. Even the worst leafbares 
end. Then we’ll have newleaf, when the 
snow disappears and the trees begin to bud 
again. And then, before we know it, it will be 
greenleaf, when the air is warm.” 
“And after that leaf-fall, and then leaf-bare 
again,” Shadowpaw murmured. He understood

the seasons, though they hadn’t been as 
pronounced in the Twolegplace. Now he 
wondered what would have happened if 
Tigerheart and Dovewing hadn’t regretted their 
decision to leave the Clans and decided to take 
their family back. We’d be safe and warm 
inside the big den. How many more times will 
I have to go through this? 
Glancing around the camp, he saw that the 
early patrols had returned, and that most of the 
Clan was in the clearing, gathered around the 
fresh-kill pile or gossiping outside their dens. 
They all looked thin and bedraggled; every cat 
was hungry, he knew, and would be until the 
weather grew warmer again. 
Still thinking about the journey from the 
big Twolegplace where he had been born, 
Shadowpaw noticed that two of the cats from 
there, Cinnamontail and Blazefire, were 
nowhere to be seen. 
I don’t think I’ve seen them since

yesterday, he realized. 
He turned to ask Dovewing if she knew 
where they had gone, but before he could 
speak, he was distracted by a bout of furious 
hissing. 
Glancing over his shoulder, Shadowpaw 
spotted Strikestone and Whorlpelt standing 
nose to nose with lashing tails and bristling fur, 
their lips drawn back as they hissed defiance at 
each other. A heartbeat later Strikestone leaped 
at Whorlpelt, and the two cats began rolling 
around on the ground in a snarling, clawing knot 
of fur. 
“Great StarClan!” Dovewing exclaimed, 
racing across the camp toward them. 
Shadowpaw followed, and watched his 
mother stand poised beside the grappling cats 
until she could swoop forward and give each of 
them a sharp swipe over the ear. The two 
warriors broke apart and sat up, shaking earth 
and debris off their pelts.

“What’s going on?” Dovewing demanded. 
“He put thorns in my bedding,” Strikestone 
meowed, glaring at Whorlpelt. 
“Did not!” Whorlpelt retorted. 
Dovewing heaved an exaggerated sigh. “For 
StarClan’s sake, are you kits?” she asked. “If 
you have so much energy, you should be using 
it to help your Clan.” 
For a few heartbeats both cats turned their 
furious glares on Dovewing. Then Whorlpelt 
hung his head. “Sorry,” he muttered. 
“It won’t happen again,” Strikestone 
promised Dovewing. 
“I should think not!” Dovewing snapped, 
turning and padding back toward her den. 
Shadowpaw followed, reflecting how 
irritable the cold weather was making every cat. 
Now that the skirmish was over, he 
remembered his uneasiness about the cats from 
the Twolegplace, and he veered aside to the 
fresh-kill pile, where his littermates were

sharing a vole. 
“Have either of you seen Cinnamontail and 
Blazefire?” he asked. 
Pouncestep gulped down a mouthful of 
prey. “Not a whisker,” she replied. 
“I haven’t, either,” Lightleap added. “Not 
since yesterday.” 
By now Shadowpaw was becoming even 
more anxious. Glancing around, he saw that 
Tigerstar had appeared and was talking to 
Dovewing outside their den. Shadowpaw raced 
over to them. 
“That is worrying,” Tigerstar agreed, when 
Shadowpaw had told him about his concerns. “I 
haven’t heard of any foxes or badgers moving 
into our territory, but in this kind of weather, 
we can’t be too careful. I’ll send out a search 
party.” 
“I’ll lead the patrol,” Dovewing offered 
instantly. 
“Thanks,” Tigerstar responded. “Choose

your cats, and start off by going down toward 
the lake and the halfbridge. The patrol from the 
far border just returned, so they’re unlikely to 
be up there.” 
“Can I come with you?” Shadowpaw asked 
his mother, eager for something to do that 
would take his mind off the misty StarClan cats 
at the Moonpool. 
His mother shook her head. “It’s too cold, 
and there could be danger,” she told him. 
“Besides, you’re a medicine-cat apprentice, and 
this is warrior business. But you can tell 
Puddleshine to prepare in case our missing 
Clanmates have been injured.” 
She headed off, calling Whorlpelt and 
Strikestone with a wave of her tail, and 
beckoning Snowbird from beside the fresh-kill 
pile, before leading the way out through the 
bramble tunnel. 
Shadowpaw watched them go with a 
frustrated twitch of his tail, reminding himself

to tell Puddleshine when his mentor returned 
with the catmint. Then he padded over to join 
his littermates and choose a blackbird for 
himself from the pile of prey. 
“Cinnamontail and Blazefire are missing. 
Dovewing has gone to look for them,” he 
reported. 
Lightleap blinked nervously. “I hope she 
finds them. I can’t think why they would go 
wandering off in this weather.” 
“Tigerstar was talking about foxes and 
badgers,” Shadowpaw murmured unhappily, 
imagining how dangerous hungry predators 
would be. 
“But I’m sure there aren’t any on our 
territory,” Pouncestep meowed, giving her 
shoulder a quick lick. “Cloverfoot told all the 
patrols to keep a special lookout, and there 
hasn’t been so much as a sniff.” 
“Then why aren’t Cinnamontail and 
Blazefire here?” Lightleap asked.

Shadowpaw had no answer to that. He 
finished his blackbird, then chose a mouse for 
Puddleshine and carried it to their den, 
checking on Grassheart while he was there. To 
his relief, the she-cat seemed to have fallen 
into a quieter sleep, and he felt confident 
enough to leave her and head back into the 
clearing to wait for the patrol to return. 
He had barely rejoined his Clanmates when 
there was a stir of movement at the mouth of 
the bramble tunnel. Dovewing appeared, with 
Cinnamontail and Blazefire just behind her and 
the rest of the patrol following. Puddleshine 
brought up the rear, a few stalks of catmint in 
his jaws. 
Tigerstar emerged from his den to meet the 
returning cats in the middle of the camp. 
Shadowpaw padded up to listen, and several 
more of his Clanmates gathered around. 
“Well?” Tigerstar asked. “What happened?” 
“My patrol met these two crossing the

border.” Dovewing angled her ears toward 
Blazefire and Cinnamontail. “Crossing back 
into our territory. They’d been in the 
Twolegplace.” 
“I spotted them lurking around a Twoleg 
den,” Puddleshine added, speaking around his 
mouthful of herbs. “I made them come back to 
camp with me.” 
Tigerstar let out a hiss of fury, and glared at 
the two straying cats with narrowed eyes. “And 
why were you there?” he demanded. 
Cinnamontail scuffled her forepaws in the 
earth. “Dunno,” she mumbled. “We sort of 
thought it might be a good place to hunt.” 
“Really?” Tigerstar snarled with a lash of 
his tail. “Now tell me something I’m going to 
believe.” 
Blazefire took a deep breath. “Honestly, we 
didn’t mean to do it,” he began. “We were just 
walking in the forest, trying to keep warm, and 
tasting the air for prey—only there wasn’t any.

And then we picked up this other scent, coming 
from the Twolegplace. It smelled of food. . . .” 
His voice died away miserably. 
“Have I got this straight?” Tigerstar asked. 
His voice was soft, but Shadowpaw knew how 
angry his father was. “You went into the 
Twolegplace to get Twolegs to give you food?” 
“Oh, no!” Cinnamontail protested, her eyes 
wide. “We would never do that. But you know 
how they throw food away, delicious food, in 
scrapcans! We thought we could just . . . It’s 
almost like hunting,” she finished. 
“And we were so hungry,” Blazefire added. 
“You remember, there was always lots of food 
to be found in the Twolegplace, and even 
though this Twolegplace isn’t as big, we thought 
it would be stupid to ignore it.” 
“Scavenging from a Twolegplace is not the 
way of a warrior,” Tigerstar told them, his ears 
laid back and his pelt bristling with rage. “If 
that’s what you want to do, maybe you should

go and be kittypets, or loners living in the 
Twolegplace! Then you can find all the food 
you like. I had thought you both were learning 
to be strong warriors . . . which means hunting 
for your food!” 
Cinnamontail and Blazefire exchanged a 
dismayed glance. 
“We don’t want that,” Blazefire protested. 
“We love being part of a Clan. Now we know 
how to defend ourselves properly, and that 
there are lots of cats who are loyal to us, who 
look out for us.” 
“We were just so hungry,” Cinnamontail 
finished. 
“Every cat is hungry,” Tigerstar growled, 
“because prey is scarce. That’s how it is in leafbare. 
But if you come to rely on finding food in 
the Twolegplace, you’ll forget how to provide 
for yourselves through hunting. You’ll be 
weaker warriors, and that means a weaker 
Clan.”

“We’re really sorry,” Cinnamontail mewed, 
while Blazefire nodded fervently in agreement. 
“‘Sorry’ fills no bellies,” Tigerstar snapped. 
Cloverfoot, the Clan deputy, who had been 
listening closely, stepped up to Tigerstar’s side. 
“There’s no telling how a cat will react in 
conditions like these,” she pointed out. “And 
this is Blazefire’s and Cinnamontail’s first leafbare 
in a Clan. I don’t think we should be too 
hard on them.” 
Tigerstar nodded slowly and took a moment 
to ponder, while the two straying cats waited, 
their tension visible in their working claws and 
quivering whiskers. 
“Please don’t send us away!” Blazefire 
burst out after a few heartbeats. 
“No, I won’t do that,” Tigerstar meowed. 
“I’m tempted to send you out to scrape fresh 
earth over the dirtplace, but I won’t do that, 
either. But since you’ve eaten Twoleg food 
today, you’ll take nothing from the fresh-kill

pile until tomorrow. And you’ll go out on a 
hunting patrol every sunrise from now until the 
next Gathering.” 
“Oh, thank you!” Cinnamontail exclaimed, 
her eyes shining in relief. 
“We’ll never do it again,” Blazefire 
promised. 
“You’d better not,” Tigerstar retorted. 
“Because if you ever do behave so selfishly 
again, you’ll wish you’d never left your big 
Twoleg den. Is that clear?” 
Chastened, both cats nodded, and they 
stood with heads bowed as Tigerstar stalked 
off.
As the rest of the Clan broke up, 
Shadowpaw noticed that Puddleshine looked 
agitated. “What’s the matter?” he asked. 
“I need to ask Tigerstar if he’ll organize 
extra hunting patrols so that Grassheart can 
have more food,” he replied. “She needs to 
keep her strength up.”

Shadowpaw wasn’t sure if his father would 
agree to that, not after all he had said about 
prey being scarce, and how important it was for 
cats not to be selfish. But he said nothing. 
There’s no harm in Puddleshine asking. 
Still carrying the precious leaves of 
catmint, Puddleshine bounded after Tigerstar 
and caught up with the Clan leader. 
Curious to hear what his father would say, 
Shadowpaw drifted after him, closer to 
Tigerstar’s den. 
Even before he came within earshot, he 
could see from Tigerstar’s bristling fur and the 
gruff sound of his voice that he wasn’t 
sympathetic to what Puddleshine was asking. 
Finally he heard his father meow, “Leaf-bare or 
not, I can’t risk cats overextending themselves 
on hunts. If I did, the rest of the Clan would end 
up in your den with Grassheart. And then where 
would we be?” 
Puddleshine dipped his head respectfully;

Shadowpaw could see that he wasn’t happy with 
the Clan leader’s decision, but he didn’t try to 
argue anymore. 
Before his mentor could see that he had 
been eavesdropping, Shadowpaw headed back to 
his den, but as he passed the pool in the center 
of the camp, he spotted his sister Lightleap 
waving her tail at him. 
“Hey, Shadowpaw! Come and play with us,” 
she called. 
Intrigued, Shadowpaw trotted over. 
Pouncestep was there, too; both his littermates 
sprang to their paws as he joined them. 
“We thought we’d have a play fight,” 
Pouncestep meowed. “It’ll keep us warm.” 
“Do you think I’m mouse-brained?” 
Shadowpaw asked, his tail curling up in 
amusement. “I’m not trained like you. You’d 
claw my fur off.” 
“No, we’ll go easy on you, promise,” 
Lightleap assured him. “Come on! It’ll be fun.”

“I’ll be a badger, invading the camp,” 
Pouncestep suggested. “And you two can be 
warriors trying to drive me out.” 
“Okay!” Lightleap reared up onto her hind 
paws and swiped at her sister’s muzzle, her 
claws sheathed. “Get out of here, filthy 
badger!” 
Pouncestep let out a fearsome growl. “I’m a 
huge, scary badger, and I’m going to eat you!” 
Trying to get into the spirit of the fight, 
Shadowpaw leaped forward and butted his head 
into his sister’s shoulder. Pouncestep whipped 
around, lashing out at him with one paw, but 
Shadowpaw dodged to one side, and the blow 
never landed. Shadowpaw felt pride shimmering 
from his pelt. Did I just dodge a trained 
warrior? 
While she was distracted, Lightleap jumped 
in and rolled her sister over, battering at her 
belly with all four paws. Shadowpaw watched 
Pouncestep trying to shove her off, then crept

up from behind Pouncestep’s head and 
slammed both paws down on her shoulders. 
“I think we’ve trapped this badger,” he 
mewed to Lightleap. “What should we do with 
it?”
“Shove it out of camp,” Lightleap replied, 
beginning to push her sister across the ground 
toward the camp entrance. 
Pouncestep let out yowls of protest, her 
paws and tail flailing, then managed to struggle 
free and scramble to her paws. “Wow, that was a 
good fight!” she exclaimed, shaking her pelt to 
get rid of the debris that clung to it. “And you 
did well, Shadowpaw,” she added. “You could 
have been a warrior if you’d wanted.” 
“Thanks, but I’m happy being . . . ,” 
Shadowpaw began to mew, then let his voice 
trail off as a fierce shiver ran all through his 
body, shaking him from ears to tail-tip. 
Between one heartbeat and the next, the camp 
vanished, and he found himself standing once

again beside the Moonpool. 
The half-moon hung in the sky, as though 
this were an ordinary Moonpool meeting, but 
this time Shadowpaw was alone. The pool 
wasn’t frozen, but when he looked around him, 
the shapes of his warrior ancestors were still 
blurred like mist, glowing with an eerie cold 
light that gradually faded away. 
“Don’t go!” Shadowpaw cried out. “Tell me 
what’s happening!” 
There was no reply. Instead Shadowpaw’s 
nose twitched as the smell of smoke drifted 
over him. His pelt began to prickle as he felt 
the heat of a fire burning close by, though he 
couldn’t see it or hear the crackle of flames. 
Ash fluttered in the sky, swirling around him 
and settling in tiny gray flakes on his pelt. 
Then the screech of a furious cat split the 
silence. Shadowpaw spun around to see the 
ThunderClan leader, Bramblestar. He had some 
other cat on the ground and was slashing his

claws across its belly. Shadowpaw couldn’t see 
who the other cat was, until it threw off 
Bramblestar and stood up. 
Shadowpaw let out a gasp. “Tigerstar!” 
His father’s dark brown tabby fur was 
ruffled, and blood was streaming from gashes 
along his side, but he sprang back undaunted 
into the fight, cuffing Bramblestar around the 
ears with both forepaws. 
Staring in horror, Shadowpaw couldn’t 
begin to understand why the two Clan leaders— 
and they were kin, too, he remembered—would 
be fighting. But before he could spring forward 
to intervene, or even ask what they were doing, 
the vision vanished and he found himself in the 
camp once more, lying on his side and drawing 
in long, gasping breaths. 
Raising his head, he saw his mother and 
father gazing down at him anxiously, while 
Lightleap and Pouncestep looked on from a 
tail-length away, their eyes wide with fear.

Tigerstar’s fur was sleek and neatly groomed, 
with no sign of any wounds. 
“You’ve had another seizure,” Dovewing 
mewed, bending her head to give Shadowpaw’s 
ears a worried lick. “I thought you were 
growing out of them.” 
So did I, Shadowpaw thought with dismay. I 
guess training isn’t making me normal after 
all. 
“You’d better go to your den and let 
Puddleshine have a look at you,” Tigerstar 
added. 
Shadowpaw’s legs felt as though they would 
give way like thawing ice as he scrambled to his 
paws, leaning heavily on his father’s shoulder. 
He was desperately trying to cling on to the 
memory of what he had seen. Even though it 
had been upsetting, the swell of dread in his 
belly gave him the feeling that somehow his 
vision might be very important.

Chapter 5 
Rootpaw paced up and down in the 
ThunderClan medicine cats’ den, feeling the 
stiffness leave his legs and his whole body start 
to warm up. 
“That’s right,” Alderheart encouraged him. 
“That’s a good way to keep your blood 
flowing.” 
For some reason, Rootpaw felt uneasy, as if 
a whole nest of ants were crawling through his 
pelt. He couldn’t understand why. In spite of the 
cold, he felt comfortable, and he was sure he 
was almost back to his full strength. And that 
has to be a good thing, right? 
Then Rootpaw picked up a familiar scent. 
Bristlepaw! A moment later the gray she-cat 
slipped around the bramble screen, dipping her 
head to Alderheart as she entered. 
Instinctively, Rootpaw halted. Whenever

Bristlepaw visited him in the medicine cats’ 
den, she would always sit close to him, and he 
found that comforting. He wondered if that had 
anything to do with his feeling uneasy about 
recovering so quickly from his dunking in the 
lake.S
urely I can’t be sad that I’ll have to leave 
ThunderClan soon? 
During the few days that Rootpaw had been 
living in the ThunderClan camp, he kept 
remembering how Bristlepaw had rescued him 
from the freezing water. 
She was so brave! 
And every time he had seen her since, he 
had felt himself growing stronger and braver, as 
if Bristlepaw’s strength and courage had 
inspired him. 
“How are you today?” Bristlepaw asked, 
padding up to him and touching her nose to his 
shoulder. 
“Much better,” Rootpaw replied. “Thanks to

you. Though with such a cold leaf-bare,” he 
added hastily, feeling a bit guilty, “it might be 
better for me to stay here for a few more days, 
get a bit more treatment from the medicine 
cats, until I know for sure that I’m well enough 
to go back to SkyClan.” Surely another day or 
two wouldn’t hurt? 
“Don’t worry,” Alderheart put in, looking 
faintly amused. “Jayfeather and I won’t let you 
go until we’re sure you’re okay.” 
“And when you get home,” Bristlepaw 
meowed, “you need to stay away from Kitepaw 
and Turtlepaw, and definitely don’t listen to 
their so-called bright ideas. They’re not your 
mentor—they’re not even warriors—so there’s 
no reason for you to take a risk trying to 
impress them.” 
“They’re older than me, and bigger,” 
Rootpaw pointed out. 
“They’re still nasty flea-pelts,” Bristlepaw 
declared. “And if you try to prove yourself to

them, you’ll end up in even worse trouble. You 
should just focus on learning to be a good 
warrior.” 
Rootpaw was awestruck to hear all this 
wisdom from another apprentice. “That’s so 
smart!” he breathed out. 
Bristlepaw shrugged. “Not really,” she 
mewed. “But I know enough to tell you to keep 
away from cats who only want to harm you, or 
make fun of you.” 
Rootpaw blinked at her happily, only to 
freeze a moment later as he heard paw steps 
and a loud, familiar voice coming from outside 
the camp. Oh, no! he thought. 
Poking his head out through the bramble 
screen, he saw his father, Tree, heading toward 
the den, escorted by the young ThunderClan 
warrior Plumstone. 
“What’s the point of all this battle 
practice?” Tree was asking, flicking his tail 
toward the center of the clearing, where a few

of the warriors were going through their 
fighting moves. “Do you expect to have to fight 
in this leaf-bare? Wouldn’t hunting practice be 
more useful?” 
Plumstone tried to get a word in, but Tree 
was oblivious as he went on. “If warriors 
weren’t always practicing their battle skills, 
maybe there wouldn’t be so much fighting 
around the lake. Think about it.” 
“That’s your father, isn’t it?” Bristlepaw 
asked, peering out of the den beside Rootpaw. 
“Yes, it is,” Rootpaw replied, rolling his 
eyes in an attempt to show Bristlepaw that he 
didn’t agree with Tree. But he was aware that he 
hadn’t quite managed it. 
Oh, StarClan, Tree is so embarrassing 
when he’s like this. 
Even though Tree had lived with the Clans 
for many moons—longer than Rootpaw had 
been alive—he still seemed as if he didn’t 
belong there. Even worse, in Rootpaw’s view,

he seemed quite content not to belong. 
If Tree weren’t my father, I wouldn’t care 
what he thought. I just don’t want any cat to 
think that I’ll end up like him. 
“How do you feel?” Tree asked. 
Rootpaw was padding through the forest 
beside his father, heading back toward SkyClan 
territory. The frostbitten grass felt rough 
beneath his pads, and the air was so cold that he 
could see his breath swirling out in a cloud. 
“I’m fine,” Rootpaw replied; now that there 
was no chance of his remaining in ThunderClan, 
he could be honest about having regained his 
full strength. “Alderheart’s treatment was really 
good, and even though it’s leaf-bare, I felt 
comfortable and warm.” 
“How did you end up in the lake in the first 
place?” Tree asked, turning his head to look 
down at his son. 
“Don’t you know?” Rootpaw responded,

surprised. “I thought Kitepaw and Turtlepaw 
would have told every cat how stupid I’d been.” 
Tree shook his head. “They just told 
Leafstar that the three of you were foraging for 
herbs, and you fell in the water. They didn’t say 
how. But I thought there must be more to it than 
that.” Once again, Rootpaw felt a tingle of 
embarrassment, recalling the events that had 
led up to his falling through the ice. “Kitepaw 
and Turtlepaw were teasing me,” he admitted to 
his father. “They called me weird, and said I’d 
never be strong enough to be a warrior. It made 
me so angry. . . . I ran at Kitepaw, but he 
dodged, and I couldn’t stop myself from falling 
in. I was so furious, I hadn’t realized how close 
I was to the lake.” 
For a few heartbeats Tree said nothing, but 
Rootpaw couldn’t bear to look at the 
disappointment in his eyes. Why should I care? 
he asked, angry with himself for being upset.

Let Tree think what he likes. It doesn’t matter 
to me! 
“This is why you should be your own cat,” 
Tree meowed at last. “Like it or not, you have a 
different ancestry from most of the other 
young cats in SkyClan. The way of the warrior 
is not the only way, and you should be grateful 
for the chance to see that. There’s more to life 
than fighting and showing yourself off as a 
strong cat. It’s not always about who is the 
biggest and bravest.” 
Rootpaw wanted to disagree, to come up 
with a good argument to prove to Tree that he 
was wrong, but he couldn’t find the words. He 
couldn’t trust himself not to blurt out all his 
frustration with his father. 
If you don’t believe in the way of the 
Clans, why do you stay? Why have you 
stayed so long, for so many moons, in a place 
where you clearly don’t belong? Where you 
don’t even try to belong?

His father didn’t have any quarrels to 
mediate right now, and Rootpaw didn’t 
understand why Tree refused to get involved in 
the daily life of the Clan—why he had to be 
aloof, always separate from the other cats. 
He tells me to be my own cat, but here he 
is, living under rules he doesn’t believe in. 
Which of us is being more true to himself? 
A heavy sense of guilt gathered in 
Rootpaw’s chest. 
I know it’s wrong, but sometimes I wish I 
had a different cat for a father. 
Rootpaw woke to find himself alone in the 
apprentices’ den, though a faint warmth still 
lingered in his sister’s nest, next to his own. 
Alarm pierced him, cold as the leaf-bare wind, 
and he scrambled out through the rocks without 
pausing to yawn and stretch. Spotting his 
mentor at the other side of the camp, he 
bounded over to join him.

“Am I late?” he gasped, seeing the annoyed 
look on Dewspring’s broad gray face. “I’m 
sorry.” 
“You’re not late,” Dewspring responded, 
though the tip of his tail was still twitching to 
and fro. “We’ve missed a lot of training time 
while you were in ThunderClan, that’s all.” 
“Well, I’m looking forward to starting again 
now,” Rootpaw mewed with a respectful dip of 
his head. 
Dewspring’s only reply was a grunt. He 
angled his ears toward the Tallrock, where 
Kitepaw and Turtlepaw were standing with 
bowed heads in front of Leafstar and 
Hawkwing. Rootpaw was too far away to hear 
what Leafstar was saying, but from her cold 
expression and bristling fur, he doubted that it 
was anything the two older apprentices wanted 
to hear. 
“They’re being punished for their part in 
putting you in danger,” Dewspring explained.

“Leafstar said she would wait until you returned 
to decide on a suitable punishment.” 
“That hardly seems fair,” Rootpaw objected. 
“It was my fault too.” 
Dewspring shrugged. “They’re older than 
you; they should have known better. Mind you,” 
he added, “I’m disappointed in you, Rootpaw. I 
thought you were smarter than that. You 
shouldn’t have gone along with them in the first 
place.” 
“Sorry,” Rootpaw muttered. 
“We’ll say no more about it,” Dewspring 
meowed. “Now, let’s get on with your training.” 
Rootpaw had hoped that now that he was 
home, he would be able to forget his accident 
by the lake. But as he returned to camp after his 
battle training with Dewspring, he couldn’t be 
pleased with himself. He had felt sluggish; he 
was sure his limbs and his tail weren’t moving 
as smoothly as Dewspring expected.

Maybe I should have stayed longer in 
ThunderClan. 
The thought made Rootpaw’s pads tingle 
with fury, that Tree had come to collect him 
before he was ready. Then his anger was driven 
out by embarrassment as he wondered if he was 
so keen to be near Bristlepaw that he would 
prefer to be injured. 
That’s pretty mouse-brained! 
When Rootpaw brushed through the narrow 
gap between two huge boulders that formed the 
camp entrance, the first cats he spotted were 
Turtlepaw and Kitepaw. They were heading right 
toward him. He halted, instinctively sliding out 
his claws. 
“Hi,” he mewed, trying not to sound as 
nervous as he felt. 
Kitepaw gave him a curt nod. 
An awkward silence followed. Rootpaw 
wanted to get away from the older apprentices, 
but at the same time he felt he couldn’t just

walk off without saying anything. Clearing his 
throat, which suddenly felt dry, he asked, “How 
did your punishment go? I hope it wasn’t too 
terrible.” 
Kitepaw turned away from him with a hiss, 
as if he was too angry to speak. It was Turtlepaw 
who replied. 
“My paws are so cold I can’t even feel 
them! Leafstar made us go to the dirtplace and 
claw at the soil to make sure it’s soft enough 
for any cat who wants to make dirt. It was 
disgusting!” 
“I’m really sorry,” Rootpaw meowed. “I 
didn’t—” 
“Only a foolish cat would fall into the lake 
like you did,” Kitepaw interrupted. “But then, 
you’re the son of the weirdest cat in the Clans, 
so it’s no surprise that you’re just that mousebrained.” 
He jerked his head at Turtlepaw. 
“Come on. Let’s go hunt.” 
Rootpaw watched as the two cats stalked

off among the boulders. His pelt was hot with 
anger and embarrassment as he headed for the 
fresh-kill pile. Needlepaw was there, gulping 
down a thrush; she paused and looked up at 
Rootpaw as he approached. 
“What’s the matter?” she asked. 
“Nothing!” Rootpaw snarled, pulling a 
shrew out of the pile. 
Needlepaw’s ears angled upward in 
surprise. “Who made dirt in your fresh-kill?” 
she asked. “Whatever, don’t take it out on me.” 
“I’m sorry.” Rootpaw sagged to the ground. 
“But I don’t want to talk about it.” 
“Oh, come on. . . .” Needlepaw shifted 
closer to her brother and rubbed her cheek 
against his. “You can tell me.” 
Rootpaw scuffled his forepaws on the 
ground. “It’s just . . . ,” he began reluctantly, 
then went on more quickly. “I just . . . I wish 
cats would take me a bit more seriously, that’s 
all. Because our father’s not a warrior or a

medicine cat, just some weirdo who talks to 
dead cats—” 
“And the mediator for all five Clans,” 
Needlepaw reminded him. “That’s important.” 
“Except there’s been nothing to mediate 
lately,” Rootpaw continued. “And the Clans 
have never had a mediator before. It’s just one 
more way that Tree doesn’t fit into regular Clan 
life, and another reason the other apprentices 
don’t see us as true members of SkyClan.” 
“Now, that is mouse-brained,” his sister 
meowed. “Why would they think that?” 
“I can sort of understand it,” Rootpaw 
responded. “When Tree is settling disputes, 
he’s supposed to be impartial, and that means 
sometimes he’ll rule against SkyClan.” He 
paused, lashing his tail, then went on, “It’s so 
frustrating! If other cats feel our father isn’t a 
real Clan cat, it means I have to work twice as 
hard to convince them that I’m a loyal member 
of SkyClan. That’s what set me off before,

charging at Kitepaw and Turtlepaw.” 
Needlepaw twitched her whiskers. “I have 
the same father,” she pointed out coolly. “But I 
just tell the other apprentices to keep their 
paws out of my business, and they leave me 
alone. They only tease you because you let 
them see it bothers you.” 
“I know, but—” 
“You should try not to worry what your 
Clanmates think,” Needlepaw interrupted. “If 
you’re true to yourself, you’ll prove them all 
wrong.” She gave Rootpaw’s ear a lick, her 
voice growing warm and affectionate. “I’m sure 
of it.” 
Rootpaw heaved a deep sigh. “I guess 
you’re right.” 
But even while he admitted that Needlepaw 
was making sense, he knew that if the two older 
apprentices went on mocking him, he was 
likely to lose his temper again. 
I can’t help it. I know that Tree is a bit

weird, and I don’t want to stick out so much 
like him. Whatever I have to do, I’m going to 
prove that I belong in SkyClan, and I’ll be a 
strong warrior, through and through!

Chapter 6 
Near the entrance to the stone hollow, 
Bristlepaw waited for her mentor to appear 
from the warriors’ den. She felt as if a whole 
colony of bees were buzzing around in her 
belly, and it was hard for her to stand firmly on 
all four paws and not start shaking with 
anticipation. 
Rosepetal had still not appeared when 
Bristlepaw’s littermates, Thriftpaw and Flippaw, 
broke away from the group of cats around the 
fresh-kill pile and raced across the camp 
toward her. 
“Is it true?” Thriftpaw asked, skidding to a 
halt in front of Bristlepaw. “You’re really going 
to take your warrior assessment today?” 
Bristlepaw’s pelt tingled with a clawscratch 
of guilt. Both her littermates were 
gazing at her in awe, but Bristlepaw had to

admit that what was happening to her wasn’t 
entirely fair. All three of them had been made 
apprentices on the same day, and she had 
assumed they would all take their assessments 
together, too. 
“Yes, it’s true,” she mewed. “Rosepetal was 
so impressed with how I rescued that SkyClan 
apprentice that she persuaded Bramblestar to 
let her assess me. I’m waiting for her now.” 
“That’s great!” Flippaw exclaimed. “I can’t 
wait for your warrior ceremony. I wonder what 
name Bramblestar will give you.” 
“Hang on—I haven’t passed yet,” 
Bristlepaw pointed out. 
“But you will,” Thriftpaw assured her. 
“You’re a great hunter, so why wouldn’t you?” 
Bristlepaw blinked at her littermates, 
grateful for their confidence in her. All the 
same, she wished that they wouldn’t go on 
about it with such loud meows that the whole 
camp could hear them. They’re starting to

make me nervous. 
“I wish we could take our assessments 
today, too,” Thriftpaw grumbled, turning her 
head away to lick her shoulder. 
Hoping to comfort her sister, Bristlepaw 
began, “It won’t be long before—” but she was 
interrupted by the sound of her name being 
called from across the camp. Turning, she saw 
her mother, Ivypool, standing just outside the 
warriors’ den. Rosepetal was a pace behind her. 
“Come on, Bristlepaw,” Ivypool meowed. 
“It’s time.” 
Excitement surged up inside Bristlepaw, 
and she bounded across the camp with a last 
glance at her littermates. It’ll be okay, she 
thought. I’ll comfort them later . . . when I’m a 
warrior. 
Icy wind probed deep into Bristlepaw’s fur 
as she crouched among the roots of an oak tree, 
her ears pricked to pick up the slightest sound

of prey. She couldn’t move around to stop 
herself from shivering, because she knew that 
she had to keep still and not warn her quarry 
that a cat was nearby. All she could hear was the 
creak of branches above her head, and the 
whisper of wind over dead leaves. 
There was no sign of Rosepetal, but 
Bristlepaw knew that her mentor would be 
somewhere behind her, watching and assessing 
every paw step, every twitch of her whiskers. 
What happens if there isn’t any prey? 
Bristlepaw wondered. How can I pass my 
assessment if I don’t catch anything? She 
stifled a growl of frustration. Well, I have to 
find something, that’s all. A good warrior 
should be able to find prey even in the 
toughest leaf-bare . . . right? 
As these thoughts passed through her mind, 
Bristlepaw’s excitement drained away, as 
quickly as rain on dry ground in greenleaf. She 
began to wish that she weren’t having her

assessment early; everything would have been 
much easier in newleaf. She would have been 
sure to succeed then. Ever since she became an 
apprentice she had imagined herself returning 
to camp with so much prey she could barely 
carry it. 
But that’s not going to happen now. 
Then it occurred to her that maybe the 
quantity of prey she caught wasn’t necessarily 
the only thing that mattered. Her mentor must 
give her credit for showing initiative. If the 
prey wouldn’t come to her, she would have to 
go and look for it. Besides, I’m sick of 
crouching under this tree. If I stay here much 
longer, I’ll turn into an ice cat! 
As silently as she could, her paws gliding 
over the ground, Bristlepaw slithered forward, 
her gaze darting this way and that. Opening her 
jaws to taste the air, she almost gagged on the 
cold claw that rushed into her throat. There was 
no prey-scent, not even a single mouse, only fat

flakes of snow that began drifting down through 
the leafless branches. 
Bristlepaw carried on searching, squeezing 
under low-growing branches where she thought 
prey might be hiding, or pausing beside banks 
where the snow might be covering their dens. 
She even clambered into a tree to check a gap 
in the trunk, in case a squirrel or an owl was 
hiding inside. But there was nothing. 
All the while the icy wind was buffeting her, 
and her paws were so cold she couldn’t feel 
them anymore. Finally, when she was ready to 
give up, a fresh gust of wind brought her the 
scent of vole. 
For a few heartbeats Bristlepaw was so 
relieved that she nearly forgot how cold she 
was. But after she had followed the scent 
around a bramble thicket and across a clearing, 
she realized that she had reached the stream 
that formed the WindClan border. And the scent 
of vole—so close now that Bristlepaw could

almost taste the succulent flesh—was coming 
from the opposite side. 
“Fox dung!” she muttered. 
Bristlepaw stood on the bank of the stream, 
gazing across into WindClan territory. She was 
almost sure that the vole must be hiding under a 
hawthorn bush that overhung the icy surface of 
the water. 
Her pads itching with indecision, 
Bristlepaw glanced swiftly around. There was 
no sign of Rosepetal, and no movement on the 
WindClan side of the border. She could pick up 
the mingled scents of both Clans’ border 
markers, but no fresh WindClan scent. With the 
stream frozen, she could dart across in a couple 
of heartbeats, catch the vole, and be back in her 
own territory before any cat spotted her. 
But even though hunger and anxiety about 
her assessment were urging her on, Bristlepaw 
hesitated. Stealing prey from another Clan was 
a serious violation of the warrior code.

Besides, even if she made her catch and 
returned undetected, she would still be leaving 
her scent on the WindClan side of the border. If 
a WindClan patrol picked it up, it would lead to 
conflict with ThunderClan, and no cat wanted 
that, especially in such a harsh leaf-bare. 
At the same time, Bristlepaw wondered 
what it would mean for her assessment if she 
returned to camp empty-pawed. Will Rosepetal 
fail me? Will I have to do my whole 
apprenticeship all over again? 
Bristlepaw stood on the bank of the stream 
for an agonizingly long time, trying to make up 
her mind. But eventually one thing became 
clear to her: She couldn’t pass her assessment 
by breaking the warrior code. It would be 
dishonorable, and an insult to Rosepetal, who 
hadn’t trained her to break the rules. 
At last, sighing deeply, Bristlepaw turned 
away. As she left the border stream behind her, 
Rosepetal stepped out from behind a clump of

bracken and stood quietly waiting for her. 
Oh, StarClan! She was watching me all 
the time! 
Moving as quickly and quietly as she could, 
Bristlepaw headed for her mentor and halted at 
Rosepetal’s side. 
“Well done,” Rosepetal mewed. “Even 
though you were disappointed, and you’d given 
up on finding prey, you still were smart enough 
to stay quiet, in case there happened to be prey 
nearby. That shows great instincts—the kind of 
instincts ThunderClan needs in its warriors.” 
As her mentor spoke, Bristlepaw began to 
feel more hopeful. Maybe this hasn’t been 
such a disaster after all! 
“Besides that,” Rosepetal went on, “you 
didn’t give way to temptation and cross the 
border, even though you’re hungry, and even 
though this is your warrior assessment. You 
showed honesty and respect for the warrior 
code.”

Bristlepaw let out a happy purr. “Does that 
mean I passed?” 
She watched Rosepetal as her mentor stood 
still, blinking thoughtfully, making Bristlepaw’s 
pads tingle with hope. Then, regretfully, 
Rosepetal shook her head. “I’m sorry, but no. 
You haven’t done anything wrong, Bristlepaw, 
but I can’t pass you this time, not without 
watching you hunt and actually capture prey. 
We’ll try again soon, when the air is warmer 
and the prey isn’t hiding.” 
A hard lump formed in Bristlepaw’s belly, 
colder than the icy wind, but she managed to 
dip her head respectfully. “I understand,” she 
choked out. 
Rosepetal stretched out her neck and 
touched her nose gently to her apprentice’s ear. 
“Let’s go back to camp,” she meowed, “and find 
you something from the fresh-kill pile.” 
Bristlepaw followed her, holding her head 
high and struggling not to let her

disappointment show. I failed for the first time 
in my life—and it wasn’t my fault! She 
wondered what she would say to her 
littermates, after they had been so encouraging, 
sure she would return to camp a warrior. She 
was so wrapped up in her own thoughts that she 
didn’t notice movement ahead of her until 
Stemleaf bounded up to her and flicked her 
shoulder with his tail. 
“Hey, how’s our new warrior?” he asked. 
Bristlepaw had thought it wasn’t possible to 
feel any worse, but at the orange-and-white 
tom’s friendly greeting she thought her heart 
was going to burst. She couldn’t find words to 
answer him. 
“Bristlepaw didn’t pass,” Rosepetal told 
Stemleaf. “She did everything right, but there 
just wasn’t any prey to be had.” 
“That’s really bad luck.” Stemleaf blinked 
sympathetically at Bristlepaw. “But don’t worry. 
It’s just this StarClan-cursed snow. You’ll pass

easily once the warmer weather comes.” 
Bristlepaw could hardly bear to look at 
Stemleaf, much less talk to him, especially 
when he was being so kind and encouraging. 
It’ll be such a long time now before we can be 
mates, the strongest pair in the Clan. And 
there must be lots of other she-cats who 
would like to be with him. 
As soon as Bristlepaw padded through the 
thorn tunnel into the stone hollow, she heard 
Flippaw let out a welcoming squeal. Both he 
and Thriftpaw came barreling across the camp 
toward her, only to skid to a halt before they 
reached her. Bristlepaw guessed that her 
expression must have shown that something had 
gone wrong. 
“What happened?” Thriftpaw asked, her 
eyes wide with concern. 
Bristlepaw watched Rosepetal padding 
across the camp on her way to tell Bramblestar 
about her assessment. “I failed,” she replied,

not meeting her littermates’ gaze. “There wasn’t 
any prey. I looked and looked.” 
“It’s okay,” Flippaw murmured, pressing 
himself against Bristlepaw’s side. “You did your 
best.” 
“Yeah,” Thriftpaw added. “You’re still a 
warrior to us—the best!” 
Even though Bristlepaw was still frustrated 
at how things had turned out, she was grateful 
for her littermates’ comfort. Today was going 
to be such a great day, she thought, and it’s 
turned out to be a disaster.

Chapter 7 
Wind drove the clouds across the night sky, so 
that the waxing half-moon shed only a fitful 
light through the gaps. Puddleshine and 
Shadowpaw huddled together as they trudged 
forward against the blast, trying to preserve 
every scrap of warmth in their pelts. 
Shadowpaw narrowed his eyes against the harsh 
wind whipping into his face, and snuffed up the 
scent of more snow to come. 
I hope we’ll be able to share dreams with 
StarClan this time, he thought worriedly. That 
would prove I’m not keeping them away. 
Since the last half-moon meeting at the 
Moonpool, life in ShadowClan had gotten even 
tougher. There was never enough prey; cats 
were getting sick because of the cold and lack 
of food, and every cat’s nerves were on edge. 
Sooner or later, Shadowpaw knew, fights

between Clanmates would become the norm. 
We need StarClan to guide us, even if all 
they can do is promise us that this terrible 
leaf-bare will end soon. 
The other medicine cats were already 
huddling for warmth by the Moonpool when 
Puddleshine and Shadowpaw stumbled down the 
spiral path. 
“Greetings,” Mothwing meowed, dipping 
her head gracefully. “I’m sorry we didn’t wait 
for you outside, it’s just so cold. How is the 
prey running in ShadowClan?” 
“It’s not running at all,” Puddleshine replied 
with an edge of bitterness to his tone. “I think 
every mouse and vole in the territory is tucked 
up in its hole, sniggering at us.” 
“ThunderClan is just as bad,” Alderheart 
agreed, while Jayfeather simply lashed his tail 
once and did not speak. 
“At least you have shelter from the trees,” 
Kestrelflight pointed out. “Up on the moor, the

wind is strong enough to blow cats off their 
paws. I had to set Larkwing’s dislocated 
shoulder when she lost her balance and fell 
down into a gully.” 
“And RiverClan can’t fish when the lake is 
frozen,” Willowshine added. “I’ve almost 
forgotten what fish tastes like!” 
Shadowpaw saw that Frecklewish and 
Fidgetflake from SkyClan were looking faintly 
embarrassed. “I know we have it easier,” 
Frecklewish admitted. “The valley shelters our 
territory, so while prey is scarce, we’re clearly 
not suffering as badly as the rest of you.” She 
cleared her throat. “If we could help you, we 
would.” 
Puddleshine let out a snort. “SkyClan’s 
most sheltered area used to be in our territory,” 
he grumbled, his voice low but loud enough to 
be heard by the SkyClan cats, who stared at 
their paws and didn’t respond. “We’d be in 
better shape now if we hadn’t given it away.”

Any more complaints that the medicine 
cats might have made were silenced by 
Jayfeather, who glared around from his 
sightless blue eyes. “If you’re quite finished,” 
he snapped, “perhaps we could make contact 
with StarClan. That is why we’re here, yes?” 
Exchanging anxious murmurs, every cat 
began to move toward the edge of the 
Moonpool. Oh, StarClan, please don’t leave 
us alone, Shadowpaw prayed desperately. We 
need you so much! 
He hadn’t looked at the Moonpool until 
now, and when he did, he let out a gasp of 
mingled shock and awe. The stream that fed the 
pool was frozen into a cascade of icicles that 
glittered when the uncertain moonlight fell 
upon them. The whole surface of the pool was 
frozen, too. 
“I’m sure this has never happened before,” 
Mothwing mewed, blinking unhappily at the 
sheet of solid ice. “Not even in that dreadful

leaf-bare when Flametail died.” 
With the rest of the medicine cats, 
Shadowpaw stretched out his neck and bent his 
head to touch his nose to the ice. Cold stabbed 
through him like a thorn. He closed his eyes, 
but when he opened them again, he was still 
crouching in the icy darkness beside the pool. 
He hadn’t been transported to the warm 
territory of StarClan, and there was no sign that 
the warriors of StarClan were trying to reach 
them here. Raising his head to gaze around, 
Shadowpaw couldn’t even see the hazy shapes 
that had appeared at the previous meeting, or 
hear their distant voices. 
“Oh, StarClan, where are you?” Frecklewish 
exclaimed, her voice shaking as she echoed 
Shadowpaw’s silent prayer. “Please come to us 
—we need you!” 
Mothwing moved back from the pool and 
sat with her forepaws neatly together, her 
amber eyes gleaming. “We can cope,” she

assured Frecklewish kindly. “We don’t need 
guidance from StarClan when we still have our 
common sense. We’ll get through this.” 
Jayfeather scowled at her. “What a surprise 
that you’re not worried,” he muttered bitterly. 
“What does that mean?” Mothwing asked, 
her eyes wide. 
“It means that you’ve never believed in 
StarClan, so it’s no loss to you,” Jayfeather 
hissed. 
Shadowpaw stared at the ThunderClan 
medicine cat as gasps of surprise rippled 
through the others. Puddleshine had told 
Shadowpaw that the RiverClan medicine cat 
didn’t believe in StarClan, but it had never been 
spoken of during a half-moon meeting. 
“The rest of us know how important this is. 
How alone we are.” Jayfeather’s voice 
trembled with emotion, and his sightless eyes 
flashed with anger and fear. 
Mothwing shifted her paws, looking down

at the ground, then back at Jayfeather. “Not that 
you asked,” she meowed evenly, “but with time 
to reflect on what happened in the Great Battle, 
and everything that happened with Darktail and 
the cats we lost . . . I no longer deny that 
StarClan exists.” 
“What?” Kestrelflight demanded, lashing 
his tail as he turned to face Mothwing. 
“You’re serious?” Jayfeather asked. 
Shadowpaw shifted nervously on his paws. 
He’d heard from Puddleshine that Mothwing’s 
lack of belief was a source of conflict between 
her and some of the medicine cats. 
Mothwing drew herself up straight. “Let me 
finish,” she said. “I believe StarClan exists, but 
I don’t know that their intentions are good, or 
that we always benefit from their ‘guidance,’” 
she said. 
“How can you say that?” Alderheart asked. 
“Their advice about SkyClan returning—” 
“Led to Darktail’s reign,” Mothwing

interrupted. “And how many cats died?” 
Jayfeather huffed. “How many more would 
have died, if they hadn’t warned us?” 
Mothwing shook her head. “That’s neither 
here nor there,” she meowed calmly. “We’ll 
never know. Anyway, every cat can believe what 
he or she wants. I just think we don’t need to 
panic.” 
Shadowpaw couldn’t agree with her, and 
from the worried looks the other medicine cats 
were exchanging, he could see that they shared 
his uncertainty. 
We don’t just have to worry about the cold 
and the shortage of prey, he thought. The real 
problem is why StarClan isn’t coming to meet 
with us. They’ve sent me visions, so it can’t be 
me. . . . Have the Clans made them angry 
somehow? 
“Does this mean that the Moonpool is just a 
sheet of ice?” he asked. “Isn’t it a special place 
anymore?”

Willowshine reached out her tail and 
touched him lightly on his shoulder. “It won’t 
last,” she promised. “Often in leaf-bare the 
water near RiverClan territory freezes up, but 
the ice melts again as soon as the weather turns 
warmer.” 
“But usually it’s only the edges of the pool 
that freeze,” Mothwing pointed out. “Never the 
whole thing. It’s never been as cold as this 
before.” 
Alderheart shook his head sadly. “I’ve got a 
horrible feeling,” he mewed, “that nothing we 
remember can prepare us for whatever is going 
on here. I just don’t understand it. We know that 
when Squirrelflight spent time in StarClan’s 
hunting grounds, they told her we should draw 
closer to them. How can we, though, if they 
won’t speak with us?” 
An ominous silence fell. Shadowpaw gazed 
at one worried face after another; a bud of fear 
began to swell inside him as he realized that

none of these medicine cats—the cats he 
respected and looked up to above all others— 
had any idea why they were suddenly cut off 
from StarClan. And my visions aren’t exactly 
normal, he thought with shame. What if there is 
something about me . . . something that keeps 
them from contacting the medicine cats 
through the Moonpool? 
“Let’s try again,” Kestrelflight suggested 
after a few heartbeats; it was clear he was 
striving desperately to sound optimistic. 
“Like that will be any use,” Jayfeather 
growled, but no other cat objected, and finally 
even Jayfeather stooped to touch his nose once 
more to the ice that covered the pool. 
But Jayfeather had been right. No starry 
cats appeared. It was almost as if the Moonpool 
had never been a special place . . . as if StarClan 
had never visited. 
“Well, it’s not as if StarClan appears to us 
every time,” Kestrelflight meowed when every

cat had moved back from the water. 
Jayfeather glared sightlessly at the 
WindClan cat, his whiskers quivering. “Don’t be 
more mouse-brained than you can help,” he 
snarled. “We all know something is going on. 
We can all feel it.” 
Shadowpaw swallowed hard. He glanced at 
Puddleshine, hoping that his mentor could think 
of some reason to argue with Jayfeather’s 
terrifying words. But Puddleshine merely 
stared at his paws, and none of the other 
medicine cats found anything to say. 
It was Kestrelflight who broke the silence. 
“We might as well end the meeting,” he 
meowed. “It’s obvious nothing is going to 
happen tonight. Perhaps we’ll have better luck 
next time—surely the weather will have 
warmed up by then.” 
Every cat murmured agreement. 
Shadowpaw thought that they were all relieved 
to be leaving that place, where they had once

received wisdom from the spirits of their 
warrior ancestors, and now were met with only 
cold and silence. 
When the other cats had headed off to their 
own camps, Puddleshine and Shadowpaw 
padded silently alongside the lake and crossed 
the border into ShadowClan territory. 
Shadowpaw felt worry like a dark cloud 
enveloping him and guessed that his mentor felt 
the same. The cold had grown even more 
intense, making his bones ache. The wind had 
dropped; a thick layer of cloud covered the sky, 
cutting off the moonlight and the glitter of the 
stars. 
That has to be a bad omen, Shadowpaw 
thought. 
Snow had begun to fall again, growing 
heavier and heavier until their fur was covered 
with it, and they slipped and stumbled into 
hidden dips in the ground. They were still some 
distance from the camp when thunder rolled

out overhead, splitting the silence of the night. 
Fear gripped Shadowpaw, and he flattened 
himself to the ground; even Puddleshine 
flinched. 
“Surely there can’t be thunder and snow at 
the same time?” Shadowpaw asked as the sound 
died away. 
“It happens sometimes,” Puddleshine 
responded, casting an uneasy glance upward. 
“But if I’m being honest, this is all starting to 
feel bad. . . .” 
Shadowpaw shuddered. It was feeling bad to 
him, too. But worse than the ominous feeling 
he had was the worry about what could be 
behind it. 
What if it is me? 
Shadowpaw sat abruptly upright, shaking off 
the moss and bracken from his nest in the 
medicine cats’ den. He was certain that some 
cat had called his name, though he could see

the curve of Puddleshine’s back, half buried in 
his bedding, and hear his mentor’s gentle 
snores. Grassheart too was still deeply asleep 
in her nest. 
“Who’s there?” Shadowpaw called out 
softly. 
There was no reply. Shadowpaw began to 
feel pressure building inside his head, as if he 
were about to have another seizure. Blinking, 
he took several deep breaths, trying to ride out 
the sensation and stay conscious. 
Gradually the pressure resolved itself into 
an urgent command. You have to go back to 
the Moonpool. 
Shadowpaw flinched. The voice in his head 
was as clear as if Grassheart had woken and 
called to him . . . but he knew this was no living 
cat. “Why?” he whispered, though he didn’t 
expect an explanation. 
He wondered if he ought to wake 
Puddleshine and tell him what was going on, but

as soon as the thought occurred to him, he felt 
a strong conviction—almost like an order— 
that he should not. 
This is a journey you have to take alone. 
A spark of hope lit within Shadowpaw. I 
know this is StarClan. And if StarClan is 
reaching out to me, it must not be me they 
have problems with. Maybe he could be a 
normal medicine cat after all—a medicine cat 
who received visions from StarClan and used 
them to help guide all the Clans. Gathering all 
his courage, he rose to his paws. 
As soon as he ventured outside his den, 
Shadowpaw spotted Stonewing crouching on 
guard beside the entrance to the camp. The 
snow was falling more lightly now and the 
clouds had begun to break up; the tom’s pale 
pelt glimmered in the starshine. 
“I’ll never get past him if I go that way,” 
Shadowpaw muttered to himself. 
Instead he wriggled through the dirtplace

tunnel, and once out in the open he crawled 
forward with his belly fur brushing the snow 
until he was well clear of the camp. Then he 
strode out into the forest, heading for the hills 
and the frozen Moonpool. 
Shadowpaw stumbled with exhaustion as he 
made his way down the spiral path to the hollow 
where the Moonpool lay. The journey from 
ShadowClan territory seemed to have taken 
twice as long as usual, and he guessed that dawn 
couldn’t be far away. 
Fresh snow had fallen on the frozen pool 
since Shadowpaw’s earlier visit; he brushed it 
away with one forepaw, enough to clear a space 
of ice where he could lean forward and touch 
his nose to the surface. He still had no idea why 
he had been called here. 
Is StarClan trying to reach me? Then why 
don’t they appear? 
Straightening up again, he looked around,

but nothing disturbed the frosty silence of the 
night. Convulsive shivers shook him; his head 
felt oddly full and heavy, and a feeling of dread 
ran through his whole body. He couldn’t 
remember ever having been so tired and cold. 
Maybe it was a mistake to come here, he 
told himself wretchedly. But I was so sure. 
Overhead, another rumble of thunder 
interrupted his thoughts. Shadowpaw flinched, 
looking up, but all he could see was the 
whirling snow. 
Who was I kidding? I’ll never be a normal 
medicine cat. All I get are weird seizure 
visions that make everybody uncomfortable. 
I’m not sure I can make it back to camp, 
alone, in this weather. I must have had bees 
in my brain to come here. 
While he still gazed upward, white light 
flashed out from the clouds, blazing down on 
the surface of the Moonpool; it was so brilliant 
that for a few heartbeats Shadowpaw was

blinded. When his vision cleared, he glanced 
around to see faint flares of light in the night 
sky as lightning crackled in the distance. 
Thunder rolled again, the noise building and 
building until it seemed as if the whole world 
would split apart. 
Shadowpaw crouched, terrified, under the 
onslaught. “But what does it all mean?” he 
yowled. 
The only answer was another flash of 
lightning, brighter and closer than before. 
Everything went black, and with a last whimper 
of terror, he sank into its softness and knew 
nothing more. 
Pain throbbed in Shadowpaw’s head as he 
regained consciousness, and he felt as though 
every muscle in his body, every hair on his pelt, 
was aching. His vision swam as he struggled to 
sit up. 
Was I struck by lightning? he wondered

dazedly. 
He could hardly believe it, and yet all 
around him the snow was melted, showing 
blackened earth. There were spiky patches on 
his pelt, prickling his pad when he touched one 
of them. 
As he gradually recovered, Shadowpaw 
became aware of a voice inside his head. There 
was no sign of where it was coming from, no 
star-furred cats approaching him or waiting for 
him in a sunny clearing. Only the voice, which 
he realized had been speaking for some time, 
always repeating the same words. 
There is a darkness in the Clans that must 
be driven out. 
Shadowpaw’s pain and exhaustion were 
swallowed up in panic. Scrambling away from 
the Moonpool, he tottered up the path to the 
line of bushes that guarded the hollow. He 
skidded down the rocky slope on the far side, 
half jumping and half falling, as if he could

outrun the ominous voice. 
But there was no escape. The voice went on 
repeating the same words, over and over. There 
is a darkness in the Clans that must be driven 
out. A darkness in the Clans . . .

Chapter 8 
The ground under the holly bush was almost 
free from snow, but Rootpaw still felt wet and 
miserable as he huddled underneath the 
branches beside Dewspring. His mentor was 
testing him by making him recite the warrior 
code, but Rootpaw was finding it hard to 
remember. 
I can’t think of anything but how cold and 
hungry I am! 
Even so, Rootpaw had to admit that SkyClan 
was lucky to have its camp in this sheltered 
valley. He had seen for himself, when he was 
recovering in their camp, how much harder life 
was for the cats of ThunderClan. 
“And what does the code tell you to do 
when you catch prey?” Dewspring asked. 
His words made Rootpaw think of sinking 
his teeth into a nice juicy mouse. His jaws

watered. “Eat it,” he replied. 
Dewspring sighed. “We give thanks to 
StarClan for its life,” he mewed. “And then we 
carry our prey to the fresh-kill pile. The Clan 
must be fed first.” His tail-tip twitched in 
irritation. “Rootpaw, even a kit knows that! You 
have to concentrate.” 
“I do know it,” Rootpaw grumbled, annoyed 
with himself. “But it’s hard to concentrate when 
my belly thinks my throat’s torn out.” 
“I know.” Now Dewspring sounded more 
sympathetic. “We’ll hunt later. For now, tell me 
what your first duty will be when you’re made a 
warrior.” 
“Keep vigil for—” Rootpaw began, only to 
be distracted as he saw Frecklewish and 
Fidgetflake emerge from Leafstar’s den in the 
gap at the base of the Tallrock, followed by the 
Clan leader herself and her deputy, Hawkwing. 
They padded across the camp toward the 
medicine cats’ den, their heads together as they

talked, and halted a few tail-lengths away from 
the holly bush where Rootpaw and his mentor 
were crouching. 
“. . . but it still worries us both that we can’t 
get in touch with StarClan” were the first words 
Rootpaw heard, from a clearly anxious 
Fidgetflake. 
Rootpaw’s jaws gaped in astonishment. He 
managed a shocked “Wha—” before Dewspring 
silenced him with a tail slapped over his mouth. 
Frecklewish nodded. “Nothing like this ever 
happened back in the gorge. Even when 
StarClan wasn’t sending us any visions or signs, 
we always felt that they were with us. It’s 
different here,” she finished sadly. 
“I keep wondering if leaving the gorge and 
coming here has weakened our connection to 
our ancestors,” Fidgetflake continued. “Did we 
make the wrong choice?” 
Leafstar sighed heavily. “Hawkwing and I, 
and the whole Clan, made the choices we

thought were necessary. I don’t believe our 
warrior ancestors will abandon us forever.” 
“But what happens when a cat dies?” 
Fidgetflake asked, alarm in his voice and his 
wide eyes. “They’re supposed to go to StarClan. 
And what if a leader were to die right now, 
when the connection to StarClan seems lost? 
Would they be able to come back? Would a new 
leader get their nine lives?” 
“I don’t think a leader is likely to die,” 
Hawkwing pointed out. “None of them are sick, 
and we’re not at war with any Clan.” 
“That’s true. Fidgetflake, you shouldn’t 
worry so much,” Leafstar meowed briskly. “The 
only danger we have to face right now is this 
leaf-bare.” 
“But that’s bad enough,” Frecklewish 
murmured, so softly that Rootpaw could only 
just make out her words. 
“So, you’re going to show me your herb 
stores,” Leafstar went on, beginning to move

away again. “If you think there’s any hope of 
finding more, we’ll send out a patrol. Which 
cats would be best at searching, do you think?” 
The group moved on, and if Frecklewish 
replied, Rootpaw couldn’t hear her. He 
exchanged a dismayed glance with Dewspring. 
“StarClan is lost?” he exclaimed, hardly able to 
believe what he had just heard. “What are we 
going to do about it?” 
“Not get our tails in a twist,” Dewspring 
responded. “Whatever the problem is, we can 
rely on Leafstar, Hawkwing, and the medicine 
cats to guide us through it.” 
Even though he spoke so confidently, he 
had a worried and distracted air, and Rootpaw 
could guess that he didn’t believe his own 
words. He wants to reassure me, but he’s just 
as anxious as I am. 
“But we—” Rootpaw began. 
“Enough of lazing around under this bush,” 
Dewspring interrupted with forced

cheerfulness. “It’s time to go hunting and bring 
back something for the fresh-kill pile.” He rose 
and led the way into the open. 
Even though Rootpaw sprang eagerly to his 
paws and followed his mentor, he knew it would 
be a long time before he could forget the 
conversation he had just heard. 
Fresh snow had fallen overnight, still 
almost unmarked except for the paw prints of 
the patrols. Here and there Rootpaw spotted the 
thin scratches of a bird’s claws, but no tracks of 
mice, rabbits, or squirrels. He couldn’t pick up 
the least trace of any prey-scent. 
“I guess they’re all huddled in their holes,” 
he meowed, discouraged. 
“We just have to keep trying,” his mentor 
responded. “Let’s go down to the lake.” 
As they headed in that direction, Dewspring 
suddenly darted aside into a patch of 
undergrowth where overhanging fronds of

bracken had protected the ground from the 
worst of the snow. He emerged a moment later 
with a shrew dangling from his jaws. 
“Great catch!” Rootpaw exclaimed. 
“No, it’s a skinny thing,” Dewspring mewed, 
setting it down at the edge of the patch and 
scratching earth over it, ready to collect it later. 
“But it’s better than nothing. Thank you, 
StarClan, for this prey,” he added with a sigh. 
Rootpaw wondered whether StarClan could 
hear him. Even if they could, did they care 
whether a hunter thanked them? But he knew 
better than to voice his doubts. He followed 
Dewspring as his mentor continued, but his 
hopes of catching something himself were 
rapidly fading. 
The trees were thinning out as they 
approached the lake, the wider stretches of 
open ground leaving even less space for prey to 
hide. Rootpaw’s legs were getting so tired, each 
paw step was an effort.

How much longer is Dewspring going to 
keep us out here, looking for prey that isn’t 
there? 
Then, as Rootpaw rounded a clump of hazel 
bushes, the lake came into view. His eyes 
widened as he spotted a huge crow, pecking at 
the ground on top of the slope that led down to 
the waterside. 
Yes! 
Instantly Rootpaw dropped into the hunter’s 
crouch. From the corner of his eye he glimpsed 
Dewspring raise his tail as if to stop him, then 
take a step back, leaving the prey to his 
apprentice. Rootpaw gulped, realizing how 
important this moment was. 
I have to make this kill. I have to get food 
for my Clan! 
Paw step by paw step Rootpaw edged 
forward. The crow had its back to him, moving 
slowly away as it pecked among the debris at 
the foot of a beech tree. The wind was blowing

from the crow to Rootpaw, so there was no 
chance that his scent would alert it. His heart 
pounded as he drew gradually closer. 
This bird is so big and scary—but it 
would be such great prey to take back to 
SkyClan! 
At last Rootpaw halted, barely a tail-length 
away from his prey. He waggled his 
hindquarters, then pushed off in a mighty leap 
and landed on the crow’s back with a thump. For 
a few heartbeats the crow struggled, its wings a 
black storm around Rootpaw’s head, its talons 
flailing. Rootpaw bit down hard on the back of 
its neck, and it suddenly collapsed and lay limp 
on the ground, the breeze from the lake ruffling 
its feathers. Rootpaw stared down at it, hardly 
able to believe that he had caught it. 
Dewspring came bounding up, his eyes 
shining. “Hey, that was amazing!” he exclaimed. 
“Well done, Rootpaw. You were brave to take 
on a bird as big as that. It just goes to show you

have a talent for hunting.” 
In spite of the cold wind, Rootpaw felt 
warm from ears to tail-tip at his mentor’s 
praise. “I thought it would fly away for sure,” he 
confessed, then added conscientiously, “Thank 
you, StarClan, for this prey.” 
“We’d better get back to camp,” Dewspring 
meowed. “Are you sure you can manage to 
carry that?” 
“I’ll be fine,” Rootpaw responded proudly, 
imagining what his Clanmates would say when 
he brought back such a magnificent addition to 
the fresh-kill pile. Let Kitepaw and Turtlepaw 
try sneering at that! 
Dewspring led the way to the spot where he 
had left his shrew and collected it before 
heading back toward the SkyClan camp. 
Rootpaw followed, dragging the crow along 
between his legs, staggering a little from the 
weight. 
They had almost reached the camp when

Rootpaw spotted his father sitting in the snow 
at the edge of a bramble thicket. Tree was so 
still that snow had drifted over his back, almost 
covering his yellow pelt. Rootpaw hoped that 
his mentor wouldn’t spot him, but at the same 
moment Dewspring halted. 
“What is your father doing?” he asked 
Rootpaw. 
Rootpaw’s pride in his catch was swallowed 
up in embarrassment; he felt as though his fur 
were on fire. “Dunno,” he muttered. “Just 
sitting there, I guess.” 
Dewspring looked confused. “Well . . . 
er . . . I suppose he wasn’t brought up in a Clan,” 
he mewed, clearly trying hard not to say 
something insulting. “He must have his own 
ways. But I wouldn’t want to be out here, 
getting snowed on.” 
Rootpaw guessed that his mentor was 
looking at Tree and wondering if this strange 
cat, who did everything differently and

sometimes took other Clans’ sides in disputes, 
was truly loyal to SkyClan. 
Why does Tree have to be so peculiar? 
Rootpaw asked himself, wishing he could be 
like Needlepaw and just brush off their father’s 
strangeness. 
Completely humiliated, struggling to think 
of something he could say to Dewspring, 
Rootpaw spotted movement in the snow. A vole 
was scurrying toward Tree, who lazily stretched 
out a paw and slammed it down on top of the 
little creature. 
Dewspring’s tail curled up in amusement. 
“Hey, he’s hunting!” he exclaimed. Padding 
over to Tree, he dipped his head and added, 
“That’s a cool trick! Can you teach me?” 
Rootpaw had to admit that his mentor was 
right. But he still wished that Tree would catch 
prey using the normal warrior hunting moves. 
Tree blinked up at Dewspring. “Sure I can,” 
he replied, his voice a friendly purr. “It’s not

hard. All you have to do is think bush.” 
Dewspring looked confused. “‘Think 
bush’?” 
“Yeah, imagine your legs are branches and 
your claws are twigs,” Tree explained. 
“And my ears are leaves, right?” Dewspring 
meowed, with a wry glance at Rootpaw, who 
staggered up, dragging his crow. 
“You got it,” Tree told him. “Then you have 
to keep really still, and the prey will come to 
you.” He picked up the vole and added it to a 
small pile beside him; Rootpaw saw that he had 
already caught a mouse and a shrew. 
His happy pride returned a moment later as 
Tree spotted his crow and asked, “Rootpaw, did 
you catch that?” 
It was Dewspring who replied, a look of 
approval on his broad gray face. “He did, all by 
himself. He’s going to be an amazing hunter.” 
Rootpaw looked up at his father to see the 
same approval gleaming in his eyes. “That’s

great to know,” Tree meowed. “Good job, 
Rootpaw.” 
“We’d better be getting back to camp,” 
Dewspring continued, as Rootpaw basked in the 
older cats’ praise. “The sun will be setting 
soon.” 
For the first time Rootpaw noticed that the 
shadows of the trees were lengthening, blue 
against the snow. The short leaf-bare day was 
drawing to an end. 
“I’ll come with you,” Tree meowed, 
gathering his prey together. 
Dewspring leaned in and picked up the 
shrew. “Here, let me help carry.” 
On the way back to the camp, Rootpaw 
didn’t feel too embarrassed anymore in his 
father’s presence. Tree had caught several 
pieces of prey. But he realized he would have 
felt differently if his father had just been sitting 
there, freezing to death while he pretended to 
be a bush.

The rest of the Clan gathered around the 
hunters as they pushed their way through the 
camp entrance and into the clearing. 
“Rootpaw, did you really catch that?” 
Needlepaw exclaimed, staring at the ragged 
feathers of the crow. “That’s amazing!” 
His mother, Violetshine, said nothing, but 
her eyes were warm with praise, and she padded 
beside Rootpaw on the way to the fresh-kill 
pile, and leaned toward him to give his ears a 
loving lick. Even Leafstar, standing beside the 
pile with Hawkwing and Reedclaw, gave him an 
approving nod. 
“The Clan will eat well tonight,” she 
mewed. 
Rootpaw ducked his head; he felt 
embarrassed all over again, but this time he 
enjoyed the feeling, because he had earned the 
respect of his Clan. He could see that the 
fresh-kill pile was bigger than it had been for 
many days, and no cat in the Clan would go

hungry. 
“Why don’t you take some prey to 
Fallowfern,” Dewspring instructed him. “Then 
you can come back and eat.” 
“Yes, take her this vole,” Tree added, 
pushing the body of his prey over to Rootpaw. 
“It’s pretty plump, considering it’s leaf-bare.” 
Rootpaw willingly agreed, picking up the 
vole and bounding across the camp to set it 
down in front of the deaf elder, who was sitting 
outside her den with her paws tucked under her. 
“Thank you,” Fallowfern meowed, swiping 
her tongue around her jaws. “That looks tasty!” 
On his way back to the fresh-kill pile, 
Rootpaw halted as Turtlepaw stepped out in 
front of him. “That was an awesome catch,” she 
mewed. She couldn’t quite meet Rootpaw’s 
gaze, and he was surprised at how shy she 
sounded. 
“I was lucky, that’s all,” he responded. 
Kitepaw was standing a couple of paces

behind Turtlepaw, and Rootpaw braced himself 
for some mocking remark, but the reddishbrown 
tom said nothing, only giving Rootpaw a 
respectful nod as he followed him and 
Turtlepaw to join the rest of the Clan. 
By now, most cats had settled down to eat, 
but no cat had taken Rootpaw’s crow. “We’re 
leaving that for you,” Tree meowed, flicking his 
tail toward Rootpaw’s prey. “There’s enough to 
eat for every cat, and you might as well enjoy 
your first big catch.” 
“You can choose some cats to share it 
with,” Dewspring added. 
Rootpaw nodded eagerly. It’s great to be 
able to feed my Clanmates! He beckoned 
Needlepaw with his tail, then turned more 
hesitantly toward Kitepaw and Turtlepaw. 
“Would you like some?” he asked, trying not to 
feel nervous. 
“Thanks!” Turtlepaw meowed, crouching 
down beside the crow.

Kitepaw looked surprised, but gave 
Rootpaw a nod of thanks and sat beside his 
denmate, sinking his teeth into the crow. 
“Where did you find this?” he mumbled. 
“Down near the lake,” Rootpaw replied, 
sitting next to Needlepaw and tearing off a 
chunk of prey. “Not far from the border with 
ThunderClan.” 
Turtlepaw nodded. “That’s a good place,” 
she agreed. 
Needlepaw gulped down a mouthful. 
“Dewspring must have been pleased,” she 
mewed. 
“He was,” Rootpaw replied. “I was 
beginning to think he’d always be disappointed 
in me.” 
“Most mentors are like that,” Turtlepaw 
assured him. “You should have heard 
Blossomheart when I first became her 
apprentice. I thought I would never do anything 
right!”

Rootpaw felt warmed by the older 
apprentices’ friendliness, as if something had 
suddenly changed. Maybe they’re not so bad 
after all, he thought. 
“You know,” Kitepaw began, “I was 
impressed by you, that day you fell through the 
ice. It was a brave thing to do, standing up for 
yourself and attacking me like that. Stupid,” he 
added, with a gleam of amusement in his eyes, 
“but brave.” 
Suddenly happy, Rootpaw let out a small 
mrrow of laughter. He had made a lucky catch 
to feed his Clan, he might just be beginning to 
make friends with Kitepaw and Turtlepaw, and 
even Tree was being slightly less embarrassing 
than usual. For the first time he began to 
believe that this terrible leaf-bare would soon 
pass, and every cat would be fine.

Chapter 9 
Bristlepaw flexed her paws to bring feeling 
back into them as she paused in the snow, 
surveying the moonlit trees and letting her 
mentor’s instructions run through her mind. 
Wind direction . . . uneven ground . . . 
focus . . . This time I’ll catch something for 
sure! Tasting the air, she crept forward, setting 
each paw down as lightly as a falling leaf, and 
keeping her tail tucked in to her side. Her ears 
were pricked to pick up the least sound of prey, 
but long moments dragged by, and still there 
was nothing. 
Flexing her claws, Bristlepaw couldn’t help 
letting out a growl of exasperation. “I don’t 
understand what I’m doing wrong!” 
Her mentor, Rosepetal, padded up behind 
her and briefly rested her tail-tip on

Bristlepaw’s shoulder. “You’re not doing 
anything wrong,” she explained patiently. 
“Every cat is having trouble hunting.” 
“But it’s been nearly half a moon since I 
failed my assessment,” Bristlepaw protested 
miserably. “And since then I haven’t caught any 
prey. I’m not helping my Clan at all!” 
“But it’s not your fault,” Rosepetal 
reassured her. “I promise you, you’re doing 
everything right. You’re just having very bad 
luck in a very bad leaf-bare.” 
Bristlepaw heaved a deep sigh. “I guess I’ll 
just keep trying.” 
“No, that’s enough for today,” Rosepetal 
responded. “It’s getting late; we should be 
heading back to camp.” 
Bristlepaw opened her jaws to argue, then 
realized that her mentor was right. The scarlet 
light of sunset had faded. Starlight glittered on 
the snow-covered ground, except where trees 
and undergrowth cast patches of deep shade.

There would be no more hunting until 
tomorrow. Reluctantly Bristlepaw nodded; her 
head and tail drooped as she followed 
Rosepetal back to the stone hollow. 
As Bristlepaw emerged from the thorn 
tunnel into the clearing, she spotted Thriftpaw 
and Flippaw bounding across the camp toward 
her.
“Hey, guess what?” Flippaw yowled as he 
halted in front of her, panting with excitement. 
“Thriftpaw caught two mice! Two!” 
“It was just luck,” Thriftpaw meowed. Her 
eyes shone as she tried and failed to hide how 
proud she was. “And Flippaw nearly caught a 
vole.” 
“I was mouse-brained,” Flippaw confessed. 
“I messed up my pounce. Hollytuft got it, 
though.” 
“That’s great,” Bristlepaw responded. She 
wanted to be excited for Thriftpaw, but a weight 
of misery was gathering in her belly. Obviously

there’s prey out there, she thought. How come 
Thriftpaw can catch it and I can’t? 
Heading farther into the camp, with 
Thriftpaw and Flippaw close behind her, 
Bristlepaw spotted Bramblestar and the Clan 
deputy, Squirrelflight, with their heads close 
together, deep in conversation with the two 
medicine cats. Curious, Bristlepaw drifted 
nearer so that she could overhear what they 
were saying. 
“Every Clan is having the same problems?” 
Bramblestar asked, his amber eyes dark with 
worry. “No cat can make contact with 
StarClan?” 
“That’s right,” Jayfeather replied. “We 
haven’t met with StarClan at the last two halfmoon 
meetings. And as far as I know, they 
haven’t sent dreams or visions to any cat.” 
“It’ll be a disaster if we’re cut off from our 
ancestors for long,” Alderheart added. “What if 
we don’t follow the right path? What if we

mess up our own destinies?” 
Bristlepaw was glad to think about 
something other than Thriftpaw’s hunting 
success. “Huh!” she muttered, turning to her 
littermates with a dismissive flick of her tail. 
“ThunderClan ought to be more worried about 
the shortage of prey, not whether we can talk to 
some dead cats in the sky.” 
Thriftpaw and Flippaw both let out purrs of 
amusement at their sister’s daring. But their 
purrs broke off a moment later and their eyes 
widened as they gazed at something behind 
Bristlepaw. 
“What?” she asked. 
A voice, icy as the leaf-bare wind, cut 
across the single word. “What kind of stupid 
furball are you?” 
Bristlepaw spun around to see Jayfeather 
glaring at her from sightless blue eyes. 
Alderheart, Squirrelflight, and Bramblestar 
stood beside him. Bristlepaw flinched, taking a

pace back. She hadn’t meant any cat to hear her, 
except for her denmates. It would have to be 
Jayfeather! He’s the scariest cat in the forest! 
And Bramblestar . . . I said something stupid 
in front of my Clan leader! “I . . . uh . . . didn’t 
mean—” she began. 
“You have no more sense than a kit before 
its eyes open,” Jayfeather snarled. “StarClan 
holds all the Clans together. If they desert us, 
we’re nothing but rogues. Clearly you’re too 
young and stupid to understand what that means, 
but an older, wiser cat would know that 
separation from StarClan is the biggest 
problem we could have to face.” 
Bristlepaw glanced around to see that more 
of her Clanmates had gathered around, gazing at 
her with worried eyes. She wanted to shrink 
into a tiny little bug that could hide itself under 
a twig. 
“I’m really sorry—” 
“‘Sorry’ fills no bellies,” Jayfeather

snapped. “If I were your mentor, I’d confine you 
to camp for the next six moons, and the only 
training you’d get would be how to shift the 
elders’ ticks!” 
While he was speaking, Bramblestar 
stepped forward, and he brushed his tail down 
Jayfeather’s side. “Calm down,” he meowed. “If 
we punished apprentices every time they said 
something foolish, we’d have no time for 
anything else. I’m sure Bristlepaw didn’t mean 
it.” As he spoke, he fixed Bristlepaw with his 
powerful amber gaze. 
“N-no, I really didn’t,” Bristlepaw 
stammered. “I was just . . . I wasn’t thinking.” 
“That’s clear enough.” Jayfeather took a 
step back. 
“We’re sorry, too,” Flippaw added, while 
Thriftpaw nodded eagerly. 
Bramblestar inclined his head, accepting 
their apologies. “However,” he continued, “it’s 
clear that the three of you don’t know enough

about StarClan. You’d better come with us to 
the Gathering tonight, and maybe you’ll learn 
more.” 
As her Clan leader spoke, Bristlepaw felt a 
churning in her belly, a weird mix of shame at 
being scolded by her Clan leader and 
excitement at being chosen to accompany her 
Clanmates to a Gathering. 
“Really?” Jayfeather twitched his whiskers 
in disgust. “It’s like you’re rewarding them!” He 
stalked off toward his den. 
“Jayfeather has a point,” Bramblestar 
meowed, his gaze traveling over Bristlepaw and 
her littermates. “You’d better make sure that 
tonight you don’t put a single claw out of line.” 
“Oh, we won’t!” Bristlepaw assured him 
fervently, while her brother and sister nodded 
in earnest agreement. 
The frozen lake shone silver under the full 
moon as Bristlepaw, Thriftpaw, and Flippaw

followed their Clan leader along the water’s 
edge toward the Gathering island. The snow had 
stopped, but the cold felt like huge claws 
gripping Bristlepaw’s body and striking up 
through her pads. She had never seen the forest 
looking so desolate, and the stars that glittered 
overhead seemed remote and uncaring. For the 
first time, she wondered why the warriors of 
StarClan might be refusing to communicate 
with the medicine cats. 
Have we done something to make them 
angry? 
But Bristlepaw’s fears receded as she and 
the rest of her Clan arrived beside the treebridge 
to cross to the island. WindClan’s cats 
were already picking their way along the tree 
trunk, and the mingled scents of the other Clans 
wafted from the bushes at the far side. 
I wonder which cats I’ll meet tonight? 
Maybe Rootpaw, she added to herself. I hope 
he’s okay—and I hope the silly furball has

had the sense to ignore the other SkyClan 
apprentices. 
Crossing the tree-bridge felt weird. 
Bristlepaw had been to Gatherings before, and 
she was used to the way that the lake water 
would suck at the tree, making her feel that at 
any moment she would lose her balance and fall 
in. Tonight the water was frozen, and Bristlepaw 
guessed that they could have walked across to 
the island without using the tree. 
Leaping down from the trunk at the other 
side, Bristlepaw raced up the shore and pushed 
her way through the bushes into the clearing 
where the Gathering took place. ThunderClan 
was the last to arrive, and the open space 
around the Great Oak was already crowded with 
cats. Bramblestar and Squirrelflight headed for 
the Great Oak; Squirrelflight took her place on 
the roots, while Bramblestar leaped into the 
branches and found a spot near Mistystar, the 
RiverClan leader. Jayfeather and Alderheart

headed to join the other medicine cats. 
Glancing around, Bristlepaw saw that her 
Clanmates were already mingling with cats 
from other Clans. She waved her tail to greet 
some young WindClan warriors she had met at 
previous Gatherings, but as she was making her 
way toward them, she was almost carried off 
her paws by a small yellow tom who thrust his 
way out of the crowd and bounced up to her. 
“Hi, Bristlepaw!” he meowed. 
“Rootpaw!” Bristlepaw exclaimed. “How 
are you?” 
“I’m fine,” Rootpaw assured her. “And it’s 
all thanks to you! I’ll never forget how you 
saved my life. Did they give you your warrior 
name after that? I’m sorry if I shouldn’t have 
called you Bristlepaw.” 
Bristlepaw winced; the comment stung, 
even though Rootpaw had no way of knowing 
about her failed assessment. And I’m not about 
to tell him. “No, I’m still Bristlepaw,” she told

him.
“I went on this amazing hunt the other day,” 
Rootpaw chattered on, clearly unaware of how 
Bristlepaw was feeling. “I caught a huge crow, 
all by myself! Four of us shared it, and we still 
couldn’t finish it.” 
Bristlepaw tried to force some enthusiasm 
into her reply. “That’s great.” 
“I love hunting!” Rootpaw exclaimed, his 
eyes shining. “Don’t you love it, Bristlepaw?” 
“I’d love it if there were anything to hunt,” 
Bristlepaw snapped. Of course I love hunting. 
I’m going to be a warrior, aren’t I? What a 
mouse-brained question! 
Rootpaw didn’t seem bothered by her curt 
tone. “If you’re short of prey in ThunderClan, I 
could bring you some,” he offered. 
Bristlepaw’s irritation flared into pure 
anger. Stretching out her neck, she hissed into 
Rootpaw’s face. “ThunderClan cats can catch 
their own prey, thank you very much!”

Rootpaw jerked backward, his eyes wide 
with distress. “I—I’m sorry,” he stammered. “I 
didn’t mean to say you couldn’t.” 
Bristlepaw instantly felt guilty when she 
saw how much she had upset the younger 
apprentice. She was trying to find the right 
words to apologize when the voice of Tigerstar 
rang out from the branches of the Great Oak. 
“Cats of all Clans, it’s time for the 
Gathering to begin!” 
Bristlepaw glanced up at his powerful tabby 
figure poised on a branch, and when she turned 
back again, she saw that Rootpaw wasn’t by her 
side any longer. She spotted him scurrying into 
a group of SkyClan cats, including the two 
apprentices who had been with him beside the 
lake. 
It wasn’t my fault, she tried to tell herself, 
though she couldn’t wipe out her feelings of 
guilt. He shouldn’t have said something so 
mouse-brained. And he’s still hanging out

with those two useless lumps of fur! 
The sounds of talk in the clearing gradually 
died away as the cats settled down to listen to 
their Clan leaders, crowding into the shelter of 
the bushes where the ground was almost clear 
of snow. 
“ShadowClan remains strong,” Tigerstar 
announced, “but I must admit we’ll all be glad 
when this leaf-bare is over.” 
“RiverClan wishes the same,” Mistystar 
agreed, rising to her paws and giving her bluegray 
pelt a shake. “The lake and the streams 
around our camp are frozen. It seems like 
moons since we’ve tasted fish.” 
“WindClan has problems too,” Harestar 
added. “There’s so little shelter in our territory, 
all the prey has fled.” 
“And yet you’re the Clans who got to keep 
all your territory when we rearranged the 
borders to make room for SkyClan,” Tigerstar 
pointed out, an edge to his voice. “If you’re not

happy with it now—” 
“You’re still complaining about the 
borders?” Crowfeather, the WindClan deputy, 
interrupted from his place on the oak roots. His 
tail twitched in exasperation. “We already fixed 
that for you!” 
“You know perfectly well why we made that 
decision,” Mistystar added, glaring at Tigerstar 
from eyes like chips of blue ice. “And unless 
you can persuade the Twolegs to move the 
Twolegplace between RiverClan and 
ShadowClan or the horseplace on our border 
with WindClan, that’s the way it has to be.” 
Tigerstar was obviously ready to make a 
furious retort when Bramblestar rose and took 
a pace forward. “That prey has been eaten,” he 
pointed out calmly, “and the new borders were 
working well for all the Clans until the weather 
turned so cold. That’s our problem, and that’s 
what we should be concentrating on.” 
Tigerstar gave his shoulders an angry shrug,

while Mistystar dipped her head in 
acknowledgment of what the ThunderClan 
leader had said. Bristlepaw felt a stab of pride. 
Her leader was so wise, to know what to say to 
prevent a useless quarrel. 
“I don’t know what we’re going to do,” 
Harestar continued after a moment’s pause. 
“This is the worst leaf-bare any cat can 
remember, and the longest that cold weather 
like this has lasted.” 
“And the longest that the medicine cats 
have gone without receiving messages from 
StarClan,” Jayfeather announced from where he 
sat with the other medicine cats. There was an 
ominous note in his voice that chilled 
Bristlepaw far more than the news of prey 
shortages. 
She could see many of the older cats 
exchanging worried glances at Jayfeather’s 
words, making her realize even more clearly 
how serious the problem was.

That was such a mouse-brained thing I 
said, back in the camp! 
“But surely that’s just a result of the cold 
and the Moonpool being frozen?” Mistystar 
meowed. “I’m confident that all we have to do 
is be patient and wait for the warmer weather.” 
Leafstar flicked an ear, her expression 
tense. “We certainly hope so.” 
Bristlepaw could see that Jayfeather wanted 
to object, but Harestar continued before he 
could get a word out. 
“Maybe it’s time to share some good news, 
then,” he suggested. “WindClan has two new 
apprentices, Woodpaw and Applepaw.” 
A chorus of caterwauling broke out in the 
clearing as the assembled cats called out the 
names of the new apprentices. Bristlepaw 
joined in, seeing the two young cats duck their 
heads in embarrassment, while their mother and 
father, Heathertail and Breezepelt, looked on 
proudly.

“RiverClan has good news, too,” Mistystar 
announced as the clamor died away. 
“Curlfeather has given birth to three healthy 
kits.” Again Bristlepaw joined in the chorus of 
congratulation, though she could see a faint 
shadow of anxiety on Mistystar’s face, and she 
spotted a few of the RiverClan warriors 
exchanging worried glances. 
This weather and the shortage of prey 
must be really tough for a mother cat and 
newborn kits in the nursery, Bristlepaw 
thought. Sparkpelt and Sorrelstripe probably 
feel the same . . . but I haven’t noticed, 
because I’ve been so focused on my own 
worries. A sharp claw of guilt pierced her as 
she realized how self-centered she had been, 
thinking only about how the harsh leaf-bare had 
spoiled her chances of becoming a warrior. 
At last the noise died down again and 
Bramblestar turned to Leafstar. “How are things

in SkyClan?” he asked. 
Leafstar seemed reluctant as she rose to 
her paws, padding forward until her branch 
began to dip gently under her weight. “Life is 
hard in SkyClan,” she reported, “but perhaps not 
as hard as for the rest of you.” Her tone was 
hesitant, and Bristlepaw guessed she was aware 
that her news might spark resentment from the 
other Clans—especially from ShadowClan. 
“Our territory is in a sheltered valley,” the 
SkyClan leader went on, “and there are caves in 
the hills beside our top border, where we could 
withdraw if things get any worse.” 
Bristlepaw could hear muttered comments 
from some of the warriors in the clearing 
below, and Tigerstar’s shoulder fur began to 
bristle as if he thought he was facing an enemy. 
“How lucky for you,” he muttered. 
Leafstar turned to him with a lash of her 
tail. “Let’s not start arguing about this again,” 
she mewed. “The new boundaries were agreed

on by all the Clans, including ShadowClan.” 
Tigerstar’s only reply was a snort as he sat 
down on his branch again. 
“This is all very well,” Jayfeather began 
again, rising from where he was sitting beside 
Alderheart, “but none of it really matters. Why 
aren’t we talking about why we’ve lost our 
connection with StarClan?” 
This time, Jayfeather’s words seemed to 
reach the cats around him; Bristlepaw could 
hear uneasy murmurs spreading throughout the 
crowd. 
“Why are we cut off?” Crowfeather from 
WindClan called out. “And will the connection 
come back again?” 
“Who will watch over us now?” some cat 
added from among the SkyClan warriors. 
Bristlepaw couldn’t see who it was, but she 
could hear the alarm in the cat’s voice. 
“Calm down.” Mosspelt, the RiverClan 
elder, rose to her paws and waved her tail to

emphasize her words. “The Moonpool is 
frozen! That must be what’s keeping StarClan 
away. But don’t worry. Newleaf will come; it 
always does.” 
More yowling broke out, some cats 
agreeing with Mosspelt and others snarling 
their objections. Bristlepaw looked in dismay 
at their bristling fur and extended claws. 
They can’t start fighting—not at a 
Gathering! 
But before a blow could be struck, a single 
word rang out across the clearing. “Enough!” 
Every cat turned to look up at the Great 
Oak. The cat who had called out was Tigerstar, 
on his paws again and sweeping the clearing 
with a commanding gaze. 
“What Jayfeather says is not quite right,” he 
meowed when the assembled cats were quiet 
once more. “There is one cat who can still 
communicate with StarClan.” 
Jayfeather looked outraged, but before he

could speak, Puddleshine nudged a young cat to 
step forward from the group of medicine cats. 
Bristlepaw recognized him as Shadowpaw, the 
ShadowClan medicine-cat apprentice. He’s my 
kin, she remembered. . . . His mother, 
Dovewing, was the littermate of her own 
mother, Ivypool. He said nothing, but only 
stood blinking up at his Clan leader. 
“Shadowpaw,” Tigerstar announced, “has 
received a message from StarClan.”

Chapter 10 
Shadowpaw gazed at the assembled warriors, 
who were all staring back at him, as if they 
couldn’t believe what Tigerstar had told them. 
Something twisted in his belly, like a snake 
trying to bite him from the inside. Ever since 
the lightning strike, when he had awoken beside 
the Moonpool in a puddle of slush, he had felt 
that something wasn’t right with him. And he 
couldn’t find any explanation for it. 
“Go on,” Tigerstar encouraged him. “Tell 
the Clans what you told me and Puddleshine.” 
Gulping nervously, Shadowpaw launched 
into the story of how he had woken in his den 
and been compelled to go back to the 
Moonpool. “Then, when I got there,” he 
continued, “there was a bright flash of light, and 
I heard a voice. I think I was struck by 
lightning.”

“Struck by lightning?” some cat in the 
crowd repeated. “Sure, and hedgehogs fly!” 
“Are you sure you weren’t dreaming?” 
Reedwhisker, the RiverClan deputy, asked. He 
sounded sympathetic, but Shadowpaw could 
sense that he didn’t believe a word of his story. 
“I’ve seen what lightning strikes can do,” the 
black tom went on. “It wasn’t long ago that 
lightning almost destroyed our camp. If you had 
really been struck, you wouldn’t be here to tell 
the tale.” 
Shadowpaw knew that what Reedwhisker 
said made sense. “I don’t know why I’m here,” 
he responded, feeling more and more selfconscious 
with every passing heartbeat. “I can 
only tell you what happened.” 
“So there was a voice,” the WindClan 
warrior Nightcloud meowed. “What did it say?” 
Shadowpaw opened his jaws to reply, but 
Mallownose of RiverClan interrupted, his voice 
loud and dismissive. “I think this is all very

dubious. Why would only a ShadowClan cat— 
and an apprentice at that—get a message from 
StarClan?” His glance raked around the crowd. 
“Does no other cat find that suspicious? After 
all, how much trouble has befallen the Clans 
for believing the things ShadowClan says?” 
There were a few murmurs of protest at the 
RiverClan warrior’s harsh words, but 
Shadowpaw saw that most of the gazes resting 
on him were hostile. Even his fellow medicine 
cats were giving him uneasy glances. 
Shadowpaw had heard some of his 
Clanmates say that the other Clans didn’t trust 
them, but he had never really understood what 
that meant until now. When he looked around, 
all he could see were bristling pelts and eyes 
narrowed in suspicion. 
Do they really think we’re bad cats? 
To Shadowpaw’s relief, Tigerstar seemed to 
sense how uncomfortable he was, and leaped 
down from his place in the Great Oak to stand

by his side. “Perhaps the leaders should talk to 
Shadowpaw alone,” he said. 
His tone of voice made the suggestion 
sound more like a command; Shadowpaw was 
grateful that no cat objected, though Jayfeather 
twitched his tail-tip and muttered something 
under his breath. 
Tigerstar wrapped his tail around 
Shadowpaw’s shoulders and drew him to one 
side of the clearing, nodding at Puddleshine to 
join them. The other leaders leaped down from 
the tree and padded over to them, while the rest 
of the cats huddled together in anxious groups, 
murmuring doubtfully to one another. 
“Okay,” Tigerstar began when Shadowpaw, 
Puddleshine, and all the leaders had settled 
themselves under the spreading branches of an 
elder bush. “Shadowpaw, tell us about this 
voice.” 
“I heard it speaking to me when I recovered 
from the lightning strike,” Shadowpaw

explained. He felt less nervous now that he had 
to tell his story to only a small group of cats, 
even though they were all Clan leaders. “It said, 
‘There is a darkness in the Clans that must be 
driven out.’” His voice shook as he repeated the 
ominous words. “I’ve heard it again since then, 
in my dreams.” 
The Clan leaders exchanged thoughtful 
glances. “Is it a voice you recognize?” 
Bramblestar asked. 
Shadowpaw shook his head. “No, I’ve never 
heard it before.” 
“Then are you sure you weren’t dreaming?” 
Mistystar’s blue eyes were sympathetic. 
“I’m quite sure,” Shadowpaw insisted. 
“But Mallownose had a point,” Harestar 
interrupted. “Why would StarClan send a 
message only to ShadowClan?” 
Shadowpaw didn’t know the answer to that 
either. He was thankful that none of the leaders 
were being openly hostile to him, but he could

see that they were all worried and suspicious, 
uncertain whether to believe him. 
“Shadowpaw has always been special.” 
Tigerstar defended him, his ears twitching in 
annoyance. “He has received visions ever since 
he was a kit.” 
The other leaders glanced at one another; 
Shadowpaw struggled with feelings of 
frustration, guessing that they thought Tigerstar 
was just a fond father, boasting about his kit. 
“That’s true, and I’ve always had seizures 
along with my visions,” he explained. “But not 
this time.” 
“Then I wonder if the fact that you’re not 
having seizures means that you’re not actually 
having visions either,” Leafstar mewed. 
“No, the vision was real,” Tigerstar insisted. 
“And we need to listen to this message. 
Remember that he foresaw his own near 
drowning in the flood. If we’d listened to him 
then, maybe the flood would never have

happened.” 
Bramblestar turned to Puddleshine, who 
was sitting on the edge of the group, following 
the discussion without speaking. “What do you 
think?” he asked. “Is Shadowpaw having true 
visions?” 
For a few heartbeats Puddleshine hesitated; 
Shadowpaw felt a hollow place inside him at 
the doubtful look on his mentor’s face. 
“There’s no question that I believe 
Shadowpaw,” Puddleshine replied at last. “He’s 
had important visions before. But I can’t be 
sure that these are actual messages from 
StarClan. We’ve all had visions, but this seems 
like something else. Leading him to the 
Moonpool on his own? Striking him with 
lightning?” He shot an apologetic look at his 
apprentice. “It’s not that I don’t believe you, 
Shadowpaw, but I’m not sure what to make of 
it.” 
Once again the Clan leaders exchanged

glances. “This is something I must discuss with 
my deputy and RiverClan’s medicine cats,” 
Mistystar meowed. 
The other leaders murmured agreement. 
“Then you mustn’t take too long about it,” 
Tigerstar warned them. “All the Clans must 
work together to understand this before we act 
on it.” 
Bramblestar dipped his head toward 
Shadowpaw. “Thank you for telling us about 
this,” he meowed. “It took courage to stand up 
before a whole Gathering like that.” 
As he spoke, he gave Shadowpaw a friendly 
nudge. At the touch, a strange sensation shot 
through Shadowpaw, as if claws were gripping 
him inside, twisting his belly and chilling his 
spine like the icy leaf-bare wind. His breath 
caught in his throat as he looked up at 
Bramblestar. 
That felt so . . . wrong.

Chapter 11 
“Okay, today we’re going to teach you a new 
battle move,” Dewspring announced. “Reedclaw 
and I will show you first. Are you ready, 
Reedclaw?” 
“When you are,” the tabby she-cat replied. 
Two sunrises had passed since the 
Gathering, and although fierce cold still 
clamped down on the forest, at least there had 
been no fresh snow. Rootpaw and Needlepaw 
were training with their mentors in a sheltered 
hollow where the covering of dead leaves was 
visible under a light drifting of white. 
“Watch carefully,” Dewspring told the two 
apprentices. “I’m going to attack Reedclaw. I’m 
bigger and heavier than her, but she’s going to 
beat me.” 
Rootpaw crouched beside his sister, eager 
to see what the new move would be. Energy was

rushing through him, as if he were a stream 
suddenly released from the grip of frost. “Wait 
till it’s our turn,” he whispered to Needlepaw. 
“I’m going to squash you!” 
Needlepaw let out a small mrrow of 
laughter. “You can always try!” 
Dewspring reared up on his hind paws and 
bore down on Reedclaw, who flattened herself 
to the ground, gazing up at him with wide eyes, 
as if she were terrified. But before Dewspring 
could land on top of her, she launched herself 
forward, still keeping low, and scooped his hind 
paws out from under him. 
Rootpaw let out a yowl of excitement as 
Dewspring tumbled onto his side, hitting the 
ground with a thud. But Reedclaw hadn’t 
finished. As swift as a striking snake, she spun 
around and leaped on top of Dewspring, pinning 
him down with one paw on his throat and 
another at the base of his tail. 
“Awesome!” Needlepaw breathed out.

Reedclaw stepped back to let Dewspring 
scramble to his paws. He stood for a moment, 
breathing hard and shaking leaf mold out of his 
pelt. “That’s the move,” he meowed. “In a battle, 
you might not get the chance to do the second 
part, but it’s a good way to deal with any 
creature who attacks you on hind paws. 
Especially if they think you’re scared.” 
Needlepaw leaped up, bouncing on her paws 
with excitement. “I want to try! Come on, 
Rootpaw, attack me.” She crouched on the 
ground and blinked at him. “Oh, you’re such a 
big, strong cat! Please don’t hurt me!” 
“You furball!” Rootpaw mewed goodhumoredly. 
He reared up on his hind paws, just as 
Dewspring had, and stretched out his forepaws, 
ready to fall on top of his sister. Needlepaw 
sprang forward, and even though he knew what 
she was trying to do, Rootpaw was too clumsy 
to dodge on hind paws alone. The breath was

driven out of his body as he hit the ground; he 
tried to roll out of Needlepaw’s way, but she 
jumped on top of him and pinned him down 
with all four paws. 
This isn’t over, Rootpaw thought. 
Remembering his first training session, 
almost a moon ago, he let himself go limp. As 
Needlepaw looked up and asked, “Was that 
okay, Reedclaw?” he powered up from the 
ground, throwing Needlepaw off, and pinned 
her in turn with a paw on her neck. 
“Mouse dung!” Needlepaw hissed. 
Rootpaw stepped back and let her get up. 
He saw that Reedclaw had curled her tail up 
with amusement, and laughter was glimmering 
in Dewspring’s eyes. 
“Well done, both of you,” Reedclaw 
meowed. “Now let’s try it again, and 
Needlepaw, you attack this time.” 
When the training session was over, all four

cats headed back to the SkyClan camp. 
Rootpaw lagged behind a few paces, his mind 
turning to Bristlepaw. Every time he thought 
about the ThunderClan apprentice, he realized 
all over again what an amazing cat she was. She 
had saved his life, she was good at everything, 
and every cat in her Clan liked her and relied on 
her, even though she wasn’t a warrior yet. 
Rootpaw had seen so much to admire in her, in 
the time he had spent in the ThunderClan camp. 
I wish she’d seen that great fighting move 
I pulled off! 
Then Rootpaw remembered his last 
meeting with Bristlepaw, at the Gathering. She 
had seemed chilly and distant. And everything 
was going so terribly for the other Clans. 
Rootpaw had noticed how skinny and miserable 
they all looked, much worse than the cats of 
SkyClan, who had the advantage of sheltered 
territory. 
They’re all short on prey, and it sounds as

if things are getting worse. I wish there were 
something I could do to help. 
“Hey, Rootpaw!” 
Needlepaw’s voice startled Rootpaw out of 
his musing, and he realized that he had fallen so 
far behind that the others were almost out of 
sight. Bounding forward, he caught up with 
them just before they reached the camp 
entrance. 
Tree was on his way out, and he dipped his 
head to the two mentors as they passed. He 
would have continued without speaking, but 
Dewspring halted and meowed, “We’ve just had 
a good training session. Rootpaw and 
Needlepaw are doing really well.” 
“Yes, they’re working hard,” Reedclaw 
agreed. “And they’re always cheerful, even 
when we tell them to clear out the soiled 
bedding!” 
Tree listened gravely, though Rootpaw 
couldn’t tell whether he was pleased by their

mentors’ praise. “Thank you for telling me,” he 
murmured at last. 
The two mentors continued into the camp, 
but Tree held his kits back with a gesture of his 
tail. “Don’t be too obedient,” he advised them. 
“It’s important to think for yourselves, too.” 
“I know,” Needlepaw responded instantly. 
“Don’t worry; it’s not a problem.” 
Rootpaw couldn’t share his sister’s easy 
acceptance of what their father had said. Why 
can’t Tree behave like the rest of our 
Clanmates? he asked himself, trying to hide 
his irritation. Doesn’t he know how important 
it is to be part of a Clan? 
Once he had said good-bye to Tree and 
headed on into camp, Rootpaw’s thoughts flew 
back to Bristlepaw and his time in ThunderClan. 
The whole Clan had been kind to take care of 
him, and Bristlepaw had been so brave to save 
him from drowning. She’s a real Clan cat! I 
wish Tree were more like her. He hated to think

of her going hungry, even though he understood 
why she had rejected his offer to find prey for 
her. She has her pride—and I respect her so 
much for that. But I still wish I could help. 
Glancing at the SkyClan fresh-kill pile, 
Rootpaw realized that although it wasn’t full, 
there was enough to feed every cat. The 
SkyClan cats around him in the camp looked far 
healthier than the ones he had seen at the 
Gathering. 
We’re very lucky here, he thought. I wish I 
could do something to help the other Clans. 
Especially ThunderClan. Especially 
Bristlepaw. 
Then an idea crept into Rootpaw’s mind. 
Spotting Leafstar and Hawkwing standing 
beside the Tallrock, he padded over to them. 
“Greetings, Rootpaw,” Leafstar meowed as 
he approached. 
Hawkwing gave him a friendly nod. “How is 
your training going?” he asked.

“Okay, I think,” Rootpaw responded, proud 
that the Clan deputy was his kin and that he had 
some good news to share with him. “Needlepaw 
and I learned a new battle move today.” 
“Excellent,” Hawkwing purred. 
“There’s something I’ve been thinking 
about . . . ,” Rootpaw began. Now that he was 
actually standing in front of the Clan leader and 
her deputy, he was beginning to have doubts 
about the idea that had seemed so brilliant 
moments before. 
“Spit it out, then,” Hawkwing meowed after 
an awkward silence of a few heartbeats. 
Rootpaw took a deep breath. “I’ve been 
remembering how welcoming ThunderClan was 
to me after I fell through the ice. They took 
care of me and were generous with the prey 
they shared with me, even though their freshkill 
pile was low.” 
“Yes, they were very kind,” Leafstar agreed, 
her eyes narrowing a little as she gazed at

Rootpaw. 
“So I thought . . . maybe to thank them for 
their kindness, I could take Bristlepaw a piece 
of prey—just one piece, that I catch myself,” 
he said. 
Leafstar’s whiskers twitched 
disapprovingly, while Hawkwing gave his leader 
a doubtful glance. “Rootpaw . . . ,” Leafstar 
began. 
“I’d catch it on my own time, not as part of 
a hunting patrol,” Rootpaw added hastily. 
“Bristlepaw was so brave, saving me when my 
own Clanmates couldn’t. . . . I just don’t feel 
I’ve thanked her properly,” he finished, 
“especially when ThunderClan was so good to 
me.”
Rootpaw’s heart was pounding as he waited 
for his leader’s verdict, but for several 
moments Leafstar said nothing. Eventually she 
turned to her deputy. “What do you think, 
Hawkwing?” she asked.

Hawkwing closed his yellow eyes in a long 
blink, then opened them again. “It’s not usual 
for Clans to share prey,” he replied. “And as 
we’re a new Clan here beside the lake, I think 
we have to be careful about overstepping 
boundaries.” 
Leafstar nodded. “That’s true. But 
ThunderClan was helpful to one of our own, and 
I don’t want to seem ungrateful.” 
“He has a point,” Hawkwing meowed. 
Rootpaw dug his claws hard into the ground 
as Leafstar still hesitated. Finally the Clan 
leader dipped her head. “I’ll allow this, 
Rootpaw,” she told him. “But—” 
“Great!” Rootpaw exclaimed, with a little 
bounce of excitement. “Thank you!” Then he 
realized that he had interrupted his Clan leader. 
“Sorry,” he muttered, hanging his head. 
“But,” Leafstar repeated, “as you said, the 
prey must be caught on your own time, and you 
must get permission from your mentor.”

“And only one small piece of prey,” 
Hawkwing added. “If you catch another massive 
crow, it’s for us, not ThunderClan!” 
“I understand,” Rootpaw mewed, nodding 
eagerly. 
“Besides that,” Leafstar continued, “make 
sure that our fresh-kill pile is reasonably full 
before you take anything to ThunderClan.” 
“Yes—yes, I will.” Every hair on Rootpaw’s 
pelt was quivering with impatience to get 
moving, but Hawkwing held him back with one 
raised paw. 
“Remember, all Clan cats are proud,” he 
warned Rootpaw. “If you want to bring prey to 
Bristlepaw, you must make clear that it’s to say 
thank you, that you’re paying a debt.” 
Rootpaw nodded gratefully. “I will,” he 
promised. “And thank you—both of you!” 
“Off you go, then,” Leafstar meowed. 
Rootpaw didn’t need telling twice. The 
words were hardly out of the Clan leader’s

mouth before he raced across the camp, 
looking for Dewspring to ask permission. 
Sunhigh was long past by the time Rootpaw 
headed toward the ThunderClan border. A small 
vole was dangling from his mouth. Its enticing 
scent and taste flooded his jaws, and with every 
paw step it became harder to resist. It was all 
Rootpaw could do not to stop and devour the 
vole himself. 
I’m sure Bristlepaw will be pleased that 
I’m being so thoughtful, he told himself. 
Dewspring and Sunnypelt padded along 
beside Rootpaw. Though his mentor had given 
him permission, he had insisted on coming with 
him, and had asked the young ginger she-cat to 
come too. Rootpaw had protested, but 
Dewspring had refused to listen. 
“You must be totally mouse-brained if you 
think I’m going to let an apprentice visit a rival 
Clan’s territory on his own,” he had meowed.

Now Rootpaw just hoped that he’d still get 
to have a private chat with Bristlepaw. There 
were things he wanted to say to her, but not in 
front of his mentor. 
“I think this is weird,” Sunnypelt remarked 
as they drew closer to the ThunderClan border. 
“Prey is so scarce right now, and here we are 
giving it away to another Clan.” 
Dewspring shrugged. “Leafstar approved it, 
and it’s good to see an apprentice thinking 
about something other than his own belly.” 
But I am thinking about my own belly, 
Rootpaw thought ruefully. And if we don’t get 
to ThunderClan soon, I won’t be able to stop 
myself devouring this prey! 
The pungent scent of the ThunderClan 
border markers cut through the scent of vole in 
Rootpaw’s jaws, warning him that they were 
approaching the boundary between the two 
Clans. 
“We’ll stop here,” Dewspring meowed. “A

ThunderClan patrol should come along soon.” 
Rootpaw dropped his prey and sat down 
beside it in the shelter of a clump of bracken. 
Looking out into ThunderClan territory, he 
could see how heavily the snow had fallen 
outside the protection of the valley, covering 
the ground and weighing down the branches of 
the trees. He hadn’t been sitting for long before 
his paws and his hindquarters were freezing 
cold; he rose again and began to pace up and 
down in a futile effort to get warm. 
To his relief, it wasn’t long before he heard 
rustling on the ThunderClan side of the border, 
and three ThunderClan warriors appeared from 
a copse of elder bushes. Rootpaw didn’t 
recognize any of them from his first Gathering 
a few nights before. 
The cat in the lead, a cream-colored tom 
with a stumpy tail, stalked up to the border and 
stood nose to nose with Dewspring. “What are 
you doing here?” he demanded.

“Greetings to you, too, Berrynose,” 
Dewspring responded. “We’ve come to—” 
He broke off as a tortoiseshell-and-white 
she-cat bounded up to Berrynose’s side and 
thrust out her muzzle toward Rootpaw’s vole. 
“Look!” she exclaimed, her whiskers quivering 
with outrage. “Prey! Have you been hunting on 
ThunderClan territory?” 
Dewspring rolled his eyes. “Poppyfrost, 
have you got bees in your brain?” he asked. “Or 
do you think we’re mouse-brained? Given 
everything that’s happened lately, with so many 
cats hungry and desperate, do you really believe 
any warrior would be bold enough to start a 
quarrel over prey?” 
“We have every right to be suspicious,” 
Poppyfrost began hotly. “Especially when—” 
“No, it’s okay, honestly,” Rootpaw 
interrupted eagerly. “I caught the vole on 
SkyClan’s side of the border. I’m bringing it to 
Bristlepaw to say thank you for saving me when

I fell in the lake.” 
Berrynose and Poppyfrost exchanged a 
disapproving glance. 
“Bristlepaw can catch her own prey, thank 
you very much,” Poppyfrost mewed, her voice 
as cold as the ice that covered the lake. 
Berrynose shook out his long, creamy pelt, 
clearly insulted. “I don’t think this is a thankyou 
at all,” he snorted. “SkyClan is just rubbing 
our noses in it, that they have so much prey that 
they’re giving it away.” 
The third member of the patrol, an older 
tabby tom, took a pace forward. “Let them 
come over,” he meowed, amusement 
glimmering in his amber eyes. “We shouldn’t 
discourage an apprentice from doing something 
generous.” 
“Oh, Birchfall, you always think you know 
best,” Berrynose responded with a disdainful 
sniff. He paused for a moment, his gaze raking 
over the SkyClan cats. “Fine, you can come,” he

snapped. “Follow us, and don’t put so much as a 
whisker out of line, or we’ll have some 
SkyClan fur to line our nests.” 
Dewspring led the way across the border; 
Rootpaw and Sunnypelt joined him in a tight 
little group as they headed into ThunderClan 
territory. Berrynose took the lead with 
Birchfall bringing up the rear and Poppyfrost 
ranging to and fro on either side. 
As soon as the SkyClan patrol emerged 
from the thorn tunnel into the ThunderClan 
camp, Rootpaw gazed around eagerly for 
Bristlepaw, but there was no sign of her. 
Dismay jolted through him from ears to tailtip. 
I hope she’s not out on patrol. 
His pelt tingled with nervousness when he 
saw that other ThunderClan cats had spotted 
them and were beginning to drift over in their 
direction, exchanging curious glances. 
Rootpaw realized for the first time that they 
might not be as friendly as they had been when

he was sick and needed help. He was glad now 
that Dewspring had insisted on coming with 
him and bringing Sunnypelt. 
“Poppyfrost, go find Bristlepaw,” 
Berrynose directed. “I’m going to report to 
Bramblestar.” 
He bounded across the camp and began 
scrambling up a pile of tumbled rocks by the 
camp wall, leading to a ledge where Rootpaw 
knew the Clan leader had his den. Meanwhile 
Poppyfrost padded over to the apprentices’ den 
and stuck her head through the ferns. A moment 
later Bristlepaw emerged; Poppyfrost led her 
back to where the SkyClan cats were waiting. 
Excitement rose inside Rootpaw as he saw 
the pale gray she-cat approaching. He 
remembered once again how angry she had 
been at the Gathering because she thought he 
was implying she couldn’t manage to feed 
herself. I need to be careful what I say. 
Bristlepaw halted in front of Rootpaw.

“Well?” she asked. 
Rootpaw dropped the vole at her paws. 
“Bristlepaw,” he began, “I’ve brought you this 
vole to say thank you for saving me when I was 
drowning. You were so brave and helpful—and 
so was ThunderClan while I recovered here in 
your camp. I wanted to repay that debt by 
bringing you this prey.” 
As he finished speaking, Rootpaw realized 
that he had sounded far too formal, as if he had 
been making an announcement at a Gathering. I 
meant to sound friendly, and I completely 
messed up! 
Even worse, he saw that Bristlepaw looked 
embarrassed. She would not meet his gaze as 
she licked furiously at her chest fur. “There’s 
no need,” she mewed. “It’s nice of you, but I 
can’t—” 
She broke off at a tiny sound from the 
ThunderClan cats who surrounded the group. 
She glanced around at her Clanmates. They

were all eyeing the vole hungrily, as if every cat 
wanted to snatch it up and devour it. 
“Thank you, Rootpaw,” she began again. “I 
can catch my own prey, but the ThunderClan 
elders will be grateful to share this vole. It’s a 
really good one.” 
Rootpaw struggled again with feelings of 
dismay. He had wanted Bristlepaw herself to 
eat his vole. But he could see that her pride 
wouldn’t let her do that. He dipped his head. 
“Thank you, Bristlepaw,” he meowed. “I’ll never 
forget what you did for me.” 
He never knew if Bristlepaw would have 
replied, because at that moment Bramblestar 
came shouldering through the crowd, followed 
by Berrynose. “Greetings,” he meowed to the 
SkyClan cats. “Welcome to our camp. Rootpaw, 
that was a kind thought, to bring prey for 
Bristlepaw.” 
His amber gaze was warm and friendly, but 
a chill crept over Rootpaw as he returned the

Clan leader’s gaze. He blinked, then blinked 
again. It was as though some kind of dark 
shadow was hanging over Bramblestar, yet no 
shadows lay in the clearing. Rootpaw glanced 
around swiftly at the other cats around him, but 
none of them seemed to notice anything odd. 
“I—I was glad to do it,” he stammered in 
reply to the Clan leader, dipping his head 
respectfully. Inwardly his heart was pounding 
so hard he thought every cat must be able to 
hear it. 
Is there something wrong with 
Bramblestar? Rootpaw asked himself. Or is 
there something wrong with me? 
While Dewspring said a formal good-bye to 
Bramblestar, Rootpaw turned to Bristlepaw. “It 
was good to see you again,” he mewed, 
scuffling his forepaws awkwardly on the 
ground. “Maybe we’ll meet again at the next 
Gathering.” 
“Maybe,” Bristlepaw responded; she

sounded distant, and she didn’t say another 
word while she stood watching Rootpaw and his 
Clanmates make their final good-byes and 
leave. 
The ThunderClan cats allowed the SkyClan 
patrol to travel back to their own territory 
without an escort. Rootpaw trailed miserably 
behind Dewspring and Sunnypelt. Even though 
he had done what he had set out to do, 
somehow it had all felt wrong. 
“Well, that was a waste of time and prey,” 
Sunnypelt commented, echoing Rootpaw’s own 
thoughts. 
Rootpaw also couldn’t forget the weird 
shadow that had seemed to enfold Bramblestar. 
He still wasn’t sure that he hadn’t been seeing 
things. Bramblestar’s one of the most 
honorable cats in the forest. There can’t be 
anything the matter with him . . . right? 
“Hey, did either of you notice anything 
weird about Bramblestar?” he asked his

Clanmates. 
Sunnypelt just shook her head. Dewspring 
glanced back over his shoulder and asked, 
“What do you mean, ‘weird’?” 
“I don’t know . . . like a . . . shadow.” 
Dewspring huffed out a breath. “Nope. No 
idea what you’re meowing about.” 
So that’s that, Rootpaw thought. Maybe it 
is me. 
Then he realized that his father, Tree, knew 
a lot about weird stuff. Maybe he would listen 
to Rootpaw and advise him about what he had 
seen. I’ll ask him about it as soon as we’re 
back in camp! 
But as they approached the SkyClan camp 
entrance, Rootpaw caught the sound of 
muttering coming from beneath the lowsweeping 
branches of a pine tree. Dewspring 
and Sunnypelt heard it too. 
Creeping nearer to check it out, Rootpaw 
and his Clanmates spotted Tree, stretched out

comfortably on the thick layer of needles 
underneath the pine. He seemed to be holding a 
lively conversation with himself. Rootpaw 
guessed that he was talking to some dead cat— 
Tree could see, and converse with, dead cats 
who weren’t in StarClan. But even though he 
understood, he had to admit that Tree looked 
and sounded pretty peculiar. 
Dewspring and Sunnypelt exchanged a 
glance; Sunnypelt’s whiskers riffled with 
amusement as the two warriors turned away 
without commenting and padded on. 
Rootpaw’s tail drooped. There’s no way I’m 
going to tell him what I thought I saw now! 
He believed his father’s power was real, but he 
had no interest in sharing it. I just want to be a 
good warrior . . . a good, normal warrior. 
Rootpaw picked up his pace to catch up 
with his mentor. “Can we learn some more 
battle moves tomorrow?” he asked. 
“Of course,” Dewspring purred. “It’s good

that you’re so eager.” 
His praise made up a little for Rootpaw’s 
disappointment. I’m going to concentrate on 
my training, he thought. I’m going to be a 
normal warrior, and StarClan help any cat 
who says I’m not!

Chapter 12 
From her ears to the tips of her claws, 
Bristlepaw felt hot with embarrassment as she 
stood watching Rootpaw and the other SkyClan 
cats leave the camp. 
Why does Rootpaw keep showing off to 
me? she asked herself. And why did he bring 
me prey? She was worried that he thought she 
couldn’t catch fresh-kill for herself. Did every 
cat know that hunting had been giving her 
trouble? Maybe news of her assessment had 
spread to all the Clans, so now she was known 
as a failed warrior who needed help all the 
time. With a growl of annoyance and frustration 
she grabbed the vole and carried it over to the 
elders’ den. 
She found Cloudtail and Brightheart 
drowsily curled up together, while Graystripe

and Brackenfur were talking quietly, side by 
side in their mossy nests. All four cats looked 
up as Bristlepaw approached and dropped the 
vole in front of them. 
“Is that for us?” Brackenfur asked. “Wow, 
great catch, Bristlepaw.” 
“It is, but I didn’t catch it.” Bristlepaw 
couldn’t bear to tell the elders where the vole 
had really come from, but she didn’t want to lie 
about it. 
“Thanks for bringing it, anyway,” Graystripe 
mewed, stretching out his neck to give the vole 
a good, deep sniff. 
“You’re welcome,” Bristlepaw responded as 
she began backing out of the den. The sooner 
the wretched thing is eaten and I can forget 
about it, the better. “Enjoy.” 
Leaving the elders to share the vole, 
Bristlepaw headed back into the camp, looking 
around for Rosepetal. She couldn’t see her 
mentor, but before she had gone many paw

steps, Stemleaf bounded up to her and fell into 
step beside her. 
Bristlepaw felt her heart start to thump, and 
every hair on her pelt grew warm at Stemleaf’s 
closeness. She remembered seeing him in the 
crowd of cats around the SkyClan patrol. I 
wonder what he thought about that? 
“I see you have an admirer,” Stemleaf 
meowed. “How long has Rootpaw been padding 
after you?” 
Bristlepaw halted, staring at Stemleaf in 
shock. “Rootpaw isn’t padding after me!” she 
choked out. 
Stemleaf’s gaze was teasing but still kind. 
“Come on—how many cats go out of their way 
to do nice things for a cat from another Clan?” 
Oh, no! Bristlepaw thought, still staring at 
Stemleaf. Maybe he’s right. Maybe Rootpaw 
does like me like that! 
“So what if he is, then,” she responded, 
trying to make her voice calm and detached.

“He’s just a mouse-brained apprentice.” 
“Well, he can’t be that mouse-brained,” 
Stemleaf purred. “No cat could be, when he’s 
chosen a great cat like you.” 
Bristlepaw blinked, hardly able to believe 
what Stemleaf had just said. “Oh . . . uh . . . 
thanks,” she stammered. 
Stemleaf just gave her a friendly nod and 
bounded off toward the fresh-kill pile, where 
Spotfur and Cinderheart were sharing prey. 
Looking after him, Bristlepaw felt as if her 
paws were floating several tail-lengths above 
the camp floor. That’s the nicest thing 
Stemleaf has ever said to me! He must feel for 
me what I feel for him! 
All her embarrassment over Rootpaw’s visit 
was swept away and forgotten. Instead she felt 
grateful to the young cat. He had made 
Stemleaf realize his feelings for her! Once 
again she pictured a time when she and 
Stemleaf would be mates, hunting and fighting

side by side for their Clan. Only one thing 
stood in the way now of that dream coming 
true:
I have to pass my assessment. 
When Bristlepaw emerged from her den the 
next morning, dawn light had barely begun to 
seep into the sky, and a few stars still 
glimmered overhead. Thriftpaw and Flippaw 
remained curled up in their bedding, their 
whiskers quivering in time with their snores, 
but Bristlepaw felt her whole body surge with 
energy. 
This is the day! 
Outside the warriors’ den, Squirrelflight 
was arranging the dawn patrols. Bristlepaw 
arched her back in a long stretch as she watched 
Twigbranch lead out one group and 
Molewhisker a second; she noticed with 
satisfaction that Rosepetal wasn’t among them. 
After the patrols left, Bristlepaw hurried

over to the warriors’ den and slid through the 
outer branches. Rosepetal was buried deep in 
her nest of bracken, only the curve of her 
cream-colored back visible among the reddishbrown 
fronds. For a moment Bristlepaw felt 
nervous about waking her, especially as she 
wasn’t supposed to be in the warriors’ den at 
all, but her determination urged her on. She 
picked her way over to her mentor, careful not 
to wake the sleeping Thornclaw as she skirted 
his nest. 
Rosepetal let out a grunt as Bristlepaw 
prodded her with one paw. “Wha—? Is it 
badgers?” she muttered. 
“No, Rosepetal, it’s me,” Bristlepaw 
replied. “Can I do my assessment today?” 
Immediately Rosepetal was awake, sitting 
up and shaking scraps of moss from her pelt. 
“Are you sure?” she asked. “No cat is judging 
you for what happened last time, and conditions 
aren’t any better.”

“I’m sure,” Bristlepaw responded 
confidently. “I’m ready. I can do it.” And then I 
can be with Stemleaf. 
Rosepetal hesitated for a moment, then 
nodded. “Very well. I’ll go tell Bramblestar.” 
Bristlepaw padded back to her own den to 
wait while her mentor spoke to the Clan leader. 
Her littermates were just emerging, yawning 
and shivering in the cold air. 
“I’m going to do my assessment again,” 
Bristlepaw announced, beginning to give 
herself a quick grooming. 
Her brother and sister brightened up 
immediately. “Wow!” Flippaw exclaimed. 
“Good luck.” 
“Yeah,” Thriftpaw added. “I’m sure you’ll do 
great this time.” 
“Thanks,” Bristlepaw responded. Some cats 
would be jealous, but Flippaw and Thriftpaw 
are so supportive! 
Before Rosepetal returned, Bristlepaw

realized that news of her assessment was 
spreading through the camp. Her parents, 
Ivypool and Fernsong, padded over to wish her 
good luck, along with Squirrelflight and 
Bramblestar himself. 
Bristlepaw thanked them all as she padded 
out of camp with her mentor, but inwardly she 
had begun to feel nervous, as if her early 
confidence were leaking out through her pads. 
She imagined how dreadful it would be if she 
failed for a second time and every cat knew it. 
Maybe Stemleaf would believe that it was 
StarClan’s will for her never to become a 
warrior. 
Oh, that would be terrible. . . . He would 
never be my mate then. 
Once out in the forest, Rosepetal turned to 
her. “Off you go,” she mewed, then stepped 
away with a nod and disappeared around a 
bramble thicket. Bristlepaw knew, however, that 
she would be somewhere close by, watching.

The dawn light was strengthening, though 
clouds covered the sky and no sun could shine 
through. For a few moments, Bristlepaw stood 
still, gazing around at the frozen forest and 
thinking hard. I’ll stay well away from the 
WindClan border this time, she told herself. 
She was determined not to return to camp 
without catching something, especially the day 
after a cat from another Clan had embarrassed 
her by bringing her prey. 
Bristlepaw remembered an area of thick 
undergrowth in a shallow valley not far from 
where Rosepetal had left her. There was plenty 
of shelter there where prey might be lurking. 
Her ears pricked alertly, her eyes scanning 
every paw step of the forest, she padded off in 
that direction. 
Around her the forest was white and quiet, 
the only sound her paws breaking through the 
hard crust of the snow, and now and then the 
creaking of a laden branch. Her breath billowed

out in a foggy cloud. The air she breathed in 
felt like claws in her chest, and it held not the 
slightest hint of prey. 
Finally Bristlepaw stood at the edge of the 
valley, which lay in front of her like an upturned 
leaf. The bottom was covered with bushes and 
ferns; here and there the deep green of holly or 
the brown of bracken poked up above the white 
covering of snow. And, for the first time, 
Bristlepaw picked up a tiny trace of mouse. 
Yes! 
Setting her paws down carefully, 
remembering that a mouse would feel the 
vibrations of her steps before it heard or saw 
her, Bristlepaw slid down into the valley and 
between the outer branches of the bushes. Only 
a dim light filtered in from above, and dead 
leaves covered the earth. 
Keeping her tail well tucked in, Bristlepaw 
flattened herself to the ground and crept 
forward. The scent of mouse was stronger now,

and before she had gone very far, she spotted it 
nibbling at something among the roots of a 
gorse bush. 
With every paw step Bristlepaw prepared 
for the mouse to sense her and run, but it had 
its back to her, intent on the seed or whatever it 
was eating. The low branches stopped 
Bristlepaw from rising into the right position 
for a pounce; instead, when she was close 
enough, she flung herself forward, feeling the 
gorse thorns rake along her back, and trapped 
the mouse between her forepaws. It let out a 
thin, terrified squeal that broke off as 
Bristlepaw bit down on its neck. 
Huge relief flooded through Bristlepaw as 
she looked down at her prey. “Thank you, 
StarClan,” she mewed fervently, even though 
part of her wondered whether she should be 
thanking StarClan when they were absent. The 
mouse was a scrawny thing, but at least she 
wouldn’t be going back to camp empty-pawed.

I’ve got to catch more than this, though, she 
thought. What if Rosepetal doesn’t think one 
mouse is enough? 
However, when Bristlepaw emerged from 
the bushes, and set the mouse down so she 
could taste the air for more prey, Rosepetal 
appeared from behind a nearby tree. 
“Well done—you passed,” her mentor 
meowed. “We can go back to camp now.” 
Bristlepaw hardly knew how to respond. 
She wanted to let out a triumphant yowl to 
celebrate passing her assessment, but at the 
same time she would have liked a more 
impressive catch to carry back with her. She 
had always imagined returning to camp loaded 
down with prey. 
“I might find more if I go on hunting a bit 
longer,” she suggested. 
Rosepetal flicked Bristlepaw’s shoulder 
with her tail-tip. “You’ve proved yourself a 
good hunter,” she mewed kindly. “If you can

catch prey in these conditions, you must be one 
of the strongest, most skillful young cats in the 
Clan. I’ll be really pleased to recommend that 
Bramblestar make you a warrior.” 
She set out toward the camp; Bristlepaw 
had no choice but to pick up her mouse and 
follow. She was looking forward to her warrior 
ceremony—and the talk with Stemleaf that was 
sure to follow—but in the midst of her 
happiness and relief she still had the niggling 
sense that the mouse wasn’t much of a catch, 
and that she could have done better. 
I hope Rosepetal didn’t say I passed just 
because she felt sorry for me. 
As Bristlepaw pushed her way through the 
thorn tunnel into the ThunderClan camp, she 
was aware of every cat turning to look at her, 
their ears pricked with interest. Then she heard 
her brother, Flippaw, let out a yowl. 
“Yes! She caught a mouse!” 
At once Bristlepaw’s Clanmates began to

gather around her. “Congratulations!” Ivypool 
purred, while Fernsong pressed his muzzle into 
her shoulder, his eyes warm with pride. 
Bristlepaw felt almost overwhelmed, 
especially when Stemleaf padded up to her and 
dipped his head to give her mouse an approving 
sniff. 
“Good job!” he meowed. 
“It’s not much of a catch,” Bristlepaw 
protested. 
“But just remember how little prey there is 
out there,” Stemleaf pointed out. “One scrawny 
mouse now is worth the same as a fat squirrel 
in greenleaf.” 
Rosepetal had said much the same, but 
somehow Bristlepaw was much happier to hear 
it from Stemleaf. “Thank you,” she purred. 
Meanwhile Rosepetal had fetched 
Bramblestar from his den; Bristlepaw saw the 
Clan leader stop a few tail-lengths away from 
her while the rest of the cats formed a ragged

circle around him. 
My warrior ceremony is now? Bristlepaw 
wondered, frantically beginning to groom 
herself. 
The Clan leader threw back his head and let 
out a commanding yowl. “Let all cats old 
enough to catch their own prey join here 
beneath the Highledge for a Clan meeting!” 
The four elders emerged from their den and 
padded up to sit together at one side of the 
circle. Alderheart brushed past the bramble 
screen of the medicine cats’ den, followed a 
heartbeat later by Jayfeather. Sorrelstripe and 
Sparkpelt sat at the entrance to the nursery with 
Daisy, while the two litters of kits rolled and 
play wrestled around their mothers’ paws. 
When all the cats were assembled, 
Bramblestar beckoned Bristlepaw with his tail. 
She padded up to him with Rosepetal at her 
side. She could feel the gaze of every cat on 
her, and held her head high, though it was hard

to ignore the nest of mice that seemed to be 
chasing one another inside her belly. 
“Cats of ThunderClan,” Bramblestar began, 
“one of the most important tasks a Clan leader 
can perform is the making of a new warrior. 
And that is the task in front of me today. 
Rosepetal, has your apprentice, Bristlepaw, 
learned the skills of a warrior, and does she 
understand the meaning of the warrior code?” 
Rosepetal dipped her head to her Clan 
leader. “She has, and she does,” she replied. “I 
am proud to bring her before you.” 
“Then I, Bramblestar, leader of 
ThunderClan, call upon my warrior ancestors to 
look down on this apprentice,” the Clan leader 
continued, glancing up at the sky with an 
unsettled expression. “She . . . has trained hard 
to understand the ways of your noble code, and 
I commend her to you as a warrior in her turn. 
“Bristlepaw, do you promise to uphold the 
warrior code and to protect and defend your

Clan, even at the cost of your life?” 
Bristlepaw let her voice ring out clearly 
across the camp. “I do.” 
“Then by the powers of StarClan I give you 
your warrior name.” Bramblestar paused. 
“Bristlepaw, from this moment on you will be 
known as Bristlefrost. I know that StarClan will 
honor your skill and your determination, and 
we welcome you as a full warrior of 
ThunderClan.” 
Bramblestar stooped to rest his muzzle on 
Bristlefrost’s head, and she gave his shoulder a 
respectful lick, then took a step backward. As if 
at a signal, all the Clan burst out in yowls and 
caterwauls of acclamation. 
“Bristlefrost! Bristlefrost!” 
Warmth spread through Bristlefrost from 
ears to tail-tip. Her meager catch was forgotten 
in her pride and happiness. She was purring too 
hard to speak as her parents came up to 
congratulate her again, while her littermates

bounced around her. 
“You’re awesome, Bristlefrost!” Thriftpaw 
meowed. “But it’s our turn next, don’t forget!” 
“Yes, you’ll both be warriors really soon 
now,” Bristlefrost assured them. 
More cats pressed up to give her their 
congratulations, and Bristlefrost thanked them, 
but her paws were tingling with impatience for 
the chance to talk to Stemleaf. Finally, as her 
Clanmates began to move away, she spotted 
him standing to one side. 
“Bristlefrost is a great name,” he told her as 
she padded up to him. “I’m so glad you passed 
this time.” 
“Thank you.” Bristlefrost took a deep 
breath, and strove to stop herself from shaking. 
It’s now or never! “Stemleaf,” she went on, “I 
really—really—like you. I’ve always felt that 
we might be mates someday. And now that I’m a 
warrior, maybe this is the time for us to start 
thinking of each other in a new way?”

Stemleaf stared at her, and Bristlefrost saw 
to her horror that dismay, and not love, was 
filling his eyes. “I’m sorry,” he mewed. “I had 
no idea you felt like this, Bristlefrost. I like 
you a lot, but I always thought of you as a friend 
—a really good friend, almost like another 
littermate. I’ve never felt . . . that way about 
you.” Bristlefrost felt as stunned as if a rock had 
fallen from the camp wall and hit her on the 
head. But she wasn’t ready to give up yet. “But 
now that you know how I feel . . . do you think 
that in time, Stemleaf, you might feel the same 
way?” 
Stemleaf shook his head. His eyes were full 
of distress, but that wasn’t much comfort to 
Bristlefrost. “I don’t think so. Actually, I . . . I 
like another cat.” His gaze traveled across the 
camp to where Spotfur was playing with 
Sparkpelt’s and Sorrelstripe’s kits outside the 
nursery. “I’m so sorry, Bristlefrost.”

“Oh . . . o-of course,” Bristlefrost 
muttered, stumbling over her words. Any 
awkwardness she’d felt in the past was nothing 
compared to the horrible embarrassment that 
flooded through her now. “Don’t worry about it. 
Just forget the whole thing.” 
Head down, she fled across the camp, and 
Stemleaf didn’t follow. A few cats paused to 
congratulate her as she passed, but Bristlefrost 
didn’t want to listen. Instead she plunged into 
the warriors’ den and burrowed into the nearest 
nest, hiding her head under her paws and tail. 
This should have been such a proud moment, 
but now she was full of grief and humiliation. 
She felt as if a fox were tearing out her belly, 
and all she wanted was to be left alone. 
“Bristlefrost?” She recognized her father’s 
voice. “Bristlefrost, what’s the matter?” 
Bristlefrost didn’t respond to Fernsong. He 
won’t understand. No cat will understand. 
I’ll never be happy again.

Chapter 13 
Shadowpaw shivered as he padded behind 
Puddleshine down the spiral path to the 
Moonpool. He could see every breath the other 
cats took, misting the air above their heads, but 
he knew that the chill he felt was not only 
because of the snow. There’s something in the 
air, and it isn’t right. 
He and Puddleshine were the last cats to 
arrive at the Moonpool meeting, and 
Shadowpaw realized at once that the others 
were wary of him. The only ones not to glance 
at him suspiciously were Alderheart, who 
greeted him kindly, and Puddleshine, who 
stayed close to him as they took their places 
beside the pool. 
Shadowpaw didn’t know if the other 
medicine cats had lost their trust in him 
because of his ominous message or because

they believed he had lied at the Gathering about 
his vision. Or maybe they think ShadowClan 
is up to something? Whatever the reason, 
Shadowpaw had never felt so uncomfortable at 
a half-moon meeting. 
Shadowpaw almost dreaded looking at the 
Moonpool, and when he did, he could see that 
frost had spread across its surface, covering the 
water in a sheen of icy blue. It looked as solid 
as rock. Surely no cat has seen anything like 
that before! 
The other cats, too, were casting uneasy 
glances at the frozen surface, and none of them 
seemed quite sure how to conduct the meeting. 
Kestrelflight was the first to clear his throat 
and begin to speak. 
“We have a little catmint beginning to grow 
back, in spite of the frost,” he reported. “But it 
won’t flourish unless the weather gets warmer. 
Cats are bound to get sick, and times ahead will 
be tough.”

Willowshine dipped her head in agreement. 
“Most of the Clan cats are focused on the lack 
of prey,” she mewed. “But we medicine cats 
have to look beyond our immediate needs.” 
A murmur of assent rose from the rest of 
the cats. “Sick cats can’t hunt, so there’ll be 
even less prey,” Alderheart added. 
An uncomfortable silence fell again, 
broken by Jayfeather, who asked the question 
that Shadowpaw knew must be on all their 
minds. “Has any cat received a message from 
StarClan?” 
All the cats shook their heads. “I dreamed 
about our old home in the gorge,” Frecklewish 
meowed. “But I’m sure it was only a dream, not 
a vision.” 
No cat had anything to add. Shadowpaw 
knew that this was the time when they should be 
approaching the Moonpool to share dreams 
with StarClan, but he could see that every one 
of them was reluctant to make the first move.

Finally, though no cat spoke, they began to 
creep closer to the water’s edge, their bellies 
flattened to the ground as if they were stalking 
prey. Shadowpaw watched carefully as they 
touched their noses to the eerie blue surface, 
then followed their lead. He’d always thought 
he was learning the ways of medicine cats 
quickly, but now doubt plagued him. What if 
I’ve been doing it wrong this whole time? he 
wondered. What if that’s why StarClan isn’t 
meeting with us? 
Shadowpaw stretched his neck out and 
touched his nose to the ice. He closed his eyes, 
waiting to catch glimpses of his warrior 
ancestors, or to find himself in lush grassland 
lit by stars, but nothing happened. When he 
drew back, the sky remained dark and empty. 
There was no sign of StarClan. 
The medicine cats exchanged glances with 
one another, their eyes wide with dismay. 
“I’m afraid this isn’t just ice,” Willowshine

meowed. “StarClan has never abandoned us for 
this long.” 
Frecklewish nodded grimly. “We have to do 
something.” 
“We’ll have to tell the Clan leaders what is 
happening,” Alderheart meowed. “They have to 
understand how we all sense that StarClan has 
turned away from us. Jayfeather, I know you’ve 
had a bad feeling about this, and I’m beginning 
to think you’re right. What if we’ve angered 
StarClan somehow? So they don’t want us to be 
close to them anymore?” 
Gasps and murmurs of surprise came from 
the other cats, and Jayfeather rolled his 
sightless eyes. “At last! It took you long 
enough.” 
Alderheart ignored his Clanmate’s harsh 
tone. “What if our connection to StarClan is 
lost forever?” he mewed somberly. 
Shadowpaw felt a twinge in his chest at the 
ThunderClan cats’ words. What if they’re

right? 
The twinge spread throughout his body and 
became a tingling feeling; Shadowpaw sensed 
that a nearby presence was trying to signal to 
him. He turned in a circle, looking for it, but he 
could see nothing except darkness and the 
cascade of icicles above the frozen Moonpool. 
“What are you doing?” Puddleshine asked. 
Shadowpaw looked up at his mentor. “I’m 
not sure,” he replied, “but I think we should 
wait. I sense there’s some kind of power here— 
something trying to get through.” 
“What?” Fidgetflake exclaimed. 
Willowshine lashed her tail. “What do you 
mean, ‘some kind of power’? Have you got 
bees in your brain?” 
“This is ridiculous,” Jayfeather snorted. 
“Why should we listen to this ShadowClan 
apprentice? His so-called visions are nothing 
like the way StarClan usually makes contact 
with us. Does anyone find it suspicious that

only ShadowClan is getting visions?” 
Shadowpaw’s first reaction was to take 
offense at the cranky ThunderClan cat’s 
dismissive tone. But then he started to ask 
himself if Jayfeather might be right. 
Then, to his surprise, Puddleshine spoke up. 
“Shadowpaw may be only a ShadowClan cat,” he 
meowed somewhat sarcastically, “as am I, but 
he has received important visions since he was 
a kit. Visions that we’ve all seen come to pass. 
I’m inclined to trust his instincts.” 
While Puddleshine was speaking, a light 
snow began to fall, drifting over the cats’ fur. 
Jayfeather gave his pelt an irritable shake. 
“Snow!” he spat. “Just what the Moonpool 
needs!” Then he turned back to Puddleshine. “If 
we run after this foolish cat’s flight of fancy, 
where will that bring us?” he demanded. 
“Nowhere good, that’s for sure.” 
“But we have nothing else to go on,” 
Puddleshine pointed out calmly. “StarClan isn’t

here to guide us.” 
More protests broke out at Puddleshine’s 
words. Shadowpaw found it hard to listen, as 
the familiar pressure began to build up in his 
head. But he sensed that the medicine cats 
didn’t want to argue with one another. They’re 
just unnerved because their connection with 
StarClan has been broken. 
At last Frecklewish’s voice cut through the 
clamor. “Maybe we don’t need to see StarClan 
to get messages from them,” she suggested. 
“What do you mean?” Alderheart asked, 
sounding just as confused as Shadowpaw felt. 
“StarClan’s messages are all around us, in 
everything we see,” Frecklewish explained. 
“Look at the patterns in the frost as they spread 
across the pool. The ice is thick at the edges, 
but thinner as you look out toward the center. 
That must mean that times are hard for the 
Clans right now, but this leaf-bare will be over 
soon, and things will get back to normal.”

“That makes a lot of sense,” Mothwing 
commented, nodding understandingly. 
Jayfeather gave a disdainful sniff. “If we 
start thinking like that, we’ll end up seeing 
signs everywhere and making up what we would 
like them to mean.” 
Shadowpaw was inclined to agree with 
Jayfeather, even though he would have 
preferred to believe what Frecklewish said. He 
heard Kestrelflight break in with a heated 
objection, but he couldn’t go on listening, 
because the pressure in his head was building 
up until he couldn’t bear it anymore. The 
tingling in his body intensified. He forced his 
head back to gaze upward; the sky was still dark 
and starless, but when he closed his eyes, a 
series of bright images began to flash through 
his mind: one cat after another, as clear as if 
they were standing right in front of him. 
As images of Twigbranch and Lionblaze 
flashed before him, a voice echoed inside

Shadowpaw’s head. “The Clans have forgotten 
the code,” the voice whispered. “It has been 
broken time and time again, and because of the 
codebreakers, every Clan must pay a price. 
They must suffer.” 
The images continued to flash through 
Shadowpaw’s mind, faster than before. He saw 
Crowfeather, Squirrelflight, Mothwing, Tree, 
Jayfeather . . . Each face tightened 
Shadowpaw’s chest and made it harder for him 
to breathe, until one image stopped his breath 
completely. 
Dovewing? 
His mother’s face loomed large in 
Shadowpaw’s mind, but he couldn’t understand 
why she was being shown to him. She can’t be 
one of the codebreakers—can she? 
As swiftly as the images had come, they 
were gone, and Shadowpaw became aware of 
Puddleshine prodding him in the side. 
“Shadowpaw, are you listening?” his mentor

demanded. 
Shadowpaw shook his pelt, trying to pull 
himself together quickly so that none of the 
other cats would realize that he had just had a 
vision. He wasn’t even sure that was what it had 
been. 
If StarClan isn’t communicating with the 
experienced medicine cats, why would they 
send a vision to me? 
Besides, some of the cats he had seen were 
standing here with him now. Shadowpaw was 
afraid that if he told them what he had seen and 
heard, they would think he was accusing them 
of something. They already think I’m a stupid 
furball. What will they say if I call them out 
as codebreakers? It certainly won’t help! 
“Yes, I—I’m listening,” he stammered. “I’ll 
do whatever the rest of you think is best.” 
Alderheart nodded kindly at his words, 
while Jayfeather merely grunted, but 
Puddleshine gave Shadowpaw a long look from

narrowed eyes. He seemed to realize that 
Shadowpaw wasn’t telling the whole truth, but 
he said nothing to challenge him. 
The rest of the medicine cats didn’t make it 
easy for Shadowpaw either. He saw the uneasy 
glances they exchanged, as if they knew that 
something was wrong. 
“You’re here to learn,” Fidgetflake pointed 
out, “and yet you were staring up into the sky as 
if you know something the rest of us don’t. 
What are you hiding?” 
“Nothing,” Shadowpaw protested, but he 
sensed Jayfeather glaring at him and found it 
hard to meet that pale, sightless gaze. 
Jayfeather might be blind, but he still saw 
things that other cats didn’t. 
But Shadowpaw wasn’t ready to tell the 
other medicine cats about what had happened. 
He still didn’t know himself what it meant. He 
clamped his jaws shut and turned his head away 
to avoid Jayfeather’s gaze.

“I think we should follow Frecklewish’s 
advice for now,” Mothwing meowed, changing 
the subject briskly. “We can’t rush StarClan, and 
we should stay alert for any signs they see fit to 
send us. And I also suggest that we say nothing 
more to our Clan leaders. We don’t want to 
panic the Clans. We must focus on getting 
through this difficult time together.” 
Frecklewish and Willowshine purred their 
agreement, though there were grunts of 
annoyance from Jayfeather and Kestrelflight. 
“And if they ask?” Kestrelflight prodded. 
“Do you expect me to lie to Harestar?” 
Mothwing lashed her tail. “You can answer 
honestly without making it seem like a crisis. 
Tell them that StarClan hasn’t said anything 
specific, or particularly helpful. That won’t 
seem unusual.” 
Kestrelflight hissed. “Of course you’d say 
that.” 
“If you ask me,” Jayfeather meowed, raising

his voice above the others’, “this is a crisis. 
And we should be preparing our Clans for life 
without StarClan—whatever that means.” 
Gasps of horror came from the other 
medicine cats. Their eyes were wide and 
shocked, as if the terrible future Jayfeather 
suggested had never occurred to them. 
“No cat did ask you,” Willowshine retorted 
tartly. “That’s giving in far too soon.” 
“StarClan can’t have abandoned us for 
good,” Frecklewish insisted. 
“That’s right,” Kestrelflight agreed, even 
though his fur was bristling with apprehension. 
“Once the ice melts, everything will go back to 
normal.” 
Jayfeather made no response, though his 
sightless eyes glared a challenge. The other 
medicine cats’ objections soon faltered into 
silence; the thought of life without StarClan 
was enough to quiet them. Without any formal 
ending to the meeting they began to pad slowly

up the spiral path, their heads and tails drooping 
in dejection. Once they were out of the hollow, 
they split up to return to their Clans with only a 
brief good-bye. 
Shadowpaw and Puddleshine plodded back 
to ShadowClan territory in uneasy silence. 
Shadowpaw sensed that his mentor was open to 
listening to him, but he didn’t ask any 
questions, and Shadowpaw didn’t want to tell 
him anything. 
When they had made their way through the 
brambles and into the ShadowClan camp, 
Puddleshine began leading the way to their den, 
but Shadowpaw halted. 
“I want to speak to Tigerstar,” he mewed. 
Puddleshine turned back to him, his 
expression disapproving. “We all agreed not to 
panic the Clans,” he warned his apprentice. 
“What are you going to tell our leader?” 
“It’s not about that,” Shadowpaw replied. “I 
just want to see my father.”

Puddleshine hesitated, then gave a brusque 
nod. “Remember what Mothwing said. Be 
careful what you say,” he meowed, and 
continued to his den. 
Shadowpaw padded across the camp until he 
reached the Clan leader’s den beneath the lowgrowing 
branches of a pine tree. Tigerstar was 
there, curled up with Dovewing in a nest of 
bracken and pine needles. For a moment 
Shadowpaw didn’t want to wake them; then, 
gathering his courage, he stepped forward and 
shook his father’s shoulder with one forepaw. 
Tigerstar raised his head, blinking drowsily. 
“Shadowpaw? What is it?” He kept his voice 
low so as not to wake Dovewing, who was still 
deeply asleep. “Shouldn’t you be at the halfmoon 
meeting with the other medicine cats?” 
“I just got back.” Shadowpaw paused, 
reluctant to go on. But I have to, he thought. If I 
can’t tell my father, which cat can I tell? 
Tigerstar moved up and made a space in his

nest for Shadowpaw to curl up beside him. 
“Come on, spit it out,” he mewed, giving his 
son’s ear an affectionate lick. 
“When I was at the Moonpool, I had a 
vision,” Shadowpaw began hesitantly. “I saw 
images of lots of different cats, and I heard a 
voice that said they were codebreakers. It said 
that because of them, all the Clans would have 
to suffer. And—and the last cat I saw was . . .” 
His voice trailed off and he glanced toward his 
mother. 
Shadowpaw felt his belly churning as he 
finished speaking and tore his gaze away from 
Dovewing to look up at his father. Tigerstar was 
staring at nothing, as if he was too stunned to 
speak. 
“Is it true?” Shadowpaw asked after a few 
moments. “Is she a codebreaker?” 
Tigerstar turned his head to gaze at the 
sleeping Dovewing. “In a way, yes,” he replied. 
“But if your mother is a codebreaker, then so

am I. And I can’t believe that all codebreakers 
are evil. Sometimes a cat might have good 
reasons for breaking the warrior code.” 
“What were your reasons?” Shadowpaw 
mewed diffidently, afraid that his father would 
be angry with him for asking such a personal 
question. 
Tigerstar remained calm, his eyes warm as 
he gazed at his son. “You know that your mother 
and I came from different Clans, and so we 
never should have become mates. Dovewing’s 
sister, Ivypool, was against it from the 
beginning. But we each knew there could be no 
other cat for us.” 
“So is that why you went to the big 
Twolegplace, where I was born?” Shadowpaw 
asked. 
Tigerstar nodded. “And when we came back, 
along with you and your littermates, every cat 
could see that we loved each other. Well, it 
took some of them a long time to accept it. The

real breaking of the code was when Dovewing 
left ThunderClan and came to live in 
ShadowClan to be with me.” 
Shadowpaw thought about that for a few 
heartbeats. “At the time, didn’t any of the 
medicine cats get a message from StarClan 
about you?” he asked eventually. 
“Not a word,” his father told him with a 
sigh. “Not until now. If what we did is so 
terrible, surely they would have said something 
at the start?” 
“I don’t know,” Shadowpaw responded. It 
felt weird to be advising his father and his Clan 
leader as if he were a full medicine cat. “This is 
still new to me. I’m trying to understand 
StarClan’s ways.” 
Tigerstar blinked thoughtfully. “Have you 
told this to Puddleshine?” he asked. “Or any 
other cat?” 
“No.” 
“Good.” Tigerstar gave another look, full of

love and concern, at Dovewing’s sleeping form. 
“If there’s any chance that this vision would put 
Dovewing in danger, you must keep it to 
yourself.” 
Shadowpaw wasn’t sure how he felt about 
that. It seemed to go against everything he had 
learned about what it meant to be a medicine 
cat. And if he didn’t tell any cat about his 
vision, it might put the Clans at risk from the 
codebreakers. 
But StarClan must be mistaken if they 
think Dovewing is evil, he told himself. Or 
maybe I misunderstood the message. 
“Shadowpaw?” his father prompted him 
gently. 
Shadowpaw heaved a deep sigh. “I won’t tell 
any cat,” he promised. 
Reluctantly, he hauled himself out of 
Tigerstar’s nest, dipped his head respectfully, 
and headed toward his own den. But he felt that 
it would be just as hard to sleep as it was to

make contact with StarClan. 
The heaviness in his head had returned; it 
was faint, but it felt like a warning. Shadowpaw 
couldn’t shake the feeling that something bad 
was about to happen. 
I only wish I knew what it was.

Chapter 14 
Rootpaw thrust his way between the boulders 
and waited for Dewspring to follow as they 
headed out of the SkyClan camp and into the 
forest. The clouds had parted to let through the 
cold sunlight of leaf-bare, and the trees cast 
long blue shadows over the snow. Already the 
light was beginning to grow red as the sun went 
down. 
“I must be completely mouse-brained to be 
going along with this,” Dewspring grumbled 
from behind his apprentice. “We’ve already 
hunted today; we’re not going to catch anything 
now.” 
“We might,” Rootpaw argued. “Prey might 
venture out as it gets darker.” 
“And hedgehogs fly,” Dewspring retorted. 
Rootpaw was pleased that he had managed 
to persuade his mentor to come out on one

more hunt. He wanted to bring back enough 
prey to build up the fresh-kill pile. Then maybe 
his Clanmates would forgive him for that stupid 
business with the vole. 
He’d been getting along better with 
Kitepaw and Turtlepaw since he had brought 
back the crow, but sometimes he caught them 
glancing at him resentfully over the dwindling 
fresh-kill pile. He could only assume it was 
because he had taken food to ThunderClan. 
I never know which way to take them. 
Sometimes they’re fine with me, and 
sometimes they go back to being bullies. Will 
it still be like that when we all become 
warriors? 
Even worse, Rootpaw had to admit they had 
a point. Prey had been scarce for so long, and 
every cat was hungry, even though SkyClan was 
better off than the other Clans. It must have 
been hard to see that vole leaving the territory 
and going to another Clan. Rootpaw wondered

whether his Clanmates believed he’d wanted to 
pay back ThunderClan, or if they knew he was 
just a lovesick mouse-brain. 
Thinking about his visit to ThunderClan 
made Rootpaw hot with embarrassment all over 
again. I made a complete fool of myself in 
front of Bristlepaw—and I was stupid to think 
it would have gone any other way. The 
memory of her chilly civility and the way she 
had passed his offering along to the elders still 
stung. 
I’ve got to stop thinking about a she-cat 
from another Clan, he decided. Instead, he 
knew, he had to concentrate on making it up to 
his own Clan, and the best way to do that was to 
catch more prey. The trouble was, Dewspring 
was right—there might not be any to hunt. Even 
though SkyClan was better off than the other 
Clans, it hadn’t been easy to find the vole he 
had given to Bristlepaw. 
But if my Clanmates are ever going to

respect me, I have to try. 
Clouds had covered the sun again, the red 
light fading into gloom. Rootpaw padded 
farther into the snowy woods, tasting the air for 
the least sign of prey. As he had feared, he 
could smell nothing but cold, earth, dead plants, 
and the faint traces of his Clanmates’ scents 
from when they had passed that way on earlier 
patrols. 
“I told you this would be pointless,” 
Dewspring meowed after a while. “It’s obvious 
the prey is hiding from the cold, and who can 
blame them? Let’s go back to camp and rest. 
We’ll try again tomorrow.” 
Rootpaw spun around to face him, deeply 
disappointed. “At least let me stay out a bit 
longer,” he begged. “Please?” 
Dewspring hesitated. “If you must,” he 
responded at last, with a sigh. “But don’t stay 
out once it’s full dark. If I have to come looking 
for you, I’ll tell every cat in the Clan to save up

their ticks, just for you.” 
Rootpaw cringed. Tick duty was one of the 
worst apprentice duties there was. “I won’t!” he 
promised. 
Once Dewspring had left, Rootpaw headed 
farther into the forest, scratching at the ground 
and sniffing under bushes and among the roots 
of trees. Eventually he broke out into the open, 
at the top of a bank that sloped down to the 
edge of the frozen lake. But for all his efforts, 
he couldn’t pick up a single trace of prey. 
Rootpaw was about to give in and return to 
camp when he caught a different scent in the 
air. ShadowClan? What is a ShadowClan cat 
doing here? 
A moment later he spotted a small figure 
making its way along the edge of the lake, a 
dark outline against the icy surface. Rootpaw 
darted down the bank and halted in front of the 
interloper. 
That’s Shadowpaw, the apprentice who

told that weird story at the Gathering! 
“What are you doing here?” Rootpaw 
demanded. 
Shadowpaw looked startled and a little 
defensive. “I’m not doing anything wrong,” he 
replied. “I’m staying within three tail-lengths of 
the lake, and I’m not taking prey. Anyway,” he 
finished defiantly, “I’m a medicine cat. I’m 
allowed to cross territory.” 
“I never said you weren’t,” Rootpaw 
meowed. “But I’d still like to know where 
you’re going.” 
Now the ShadowClan apprentice looked 
faintly guilty. “To the Moonpool,” he 
responded. 
Rootpaw blinked at him, puzzled. “I know 
you’re training to be a medicine cat,” he began, 
“but you’re still only an apprentice. You’re not 
supposed to be going to the Moonpool alone, 
are you?” 
Shadowpaw ducked his head. “Well . . . I

sneaked out,” he admitted. “But I have a good 
reason. I just can’t tell any cat in my Clan.” 
His claws raked the pebbly shore as he 
spoke; Rootpaw felt sympathy welling up inside 
him as he recognized how stressed and upset 
the ShadowClan apprentice was. 
“I’m not in your Clan,” he pointed out. “You 
can tell me. And I promise that anything you 
say will stay between the two of us.” 
Shadowpaw gave Rootpaw a long look, then 
nodded quickly, as if he had decided to trust 
him. “Last night was the half-moon meeting at 
the Moonpool,” he began. “I saw some things 
there, but no one else did, and I’m not sure what 
they mean. If I tell the rest of the Clan what I 
saw, cats could get hurt. My father would be 
furious, and the other cats in the Clan already 
think I’m weird.” 
Rootpaw glanced at his paws. He didn’t 
want Shadowpaw to see in his eyes that he had 
heard that said about him before, from Kitepaw,

who had heard it from ShadowClan apprentices 
at the Gathering. “But if you don’t tell any cat, 
something bad will happen?” Rootpaw looked 
at Shadowpaw, trying hard to understand. 
“I don’t know. I thought I would go back to 
the Moonpool to see if I can make any more 
sense of it all.” 
Rootpaw barely understood what the 
ShadowClan apprentice was talking about. He 
didn’t know much about medicine cats, but he 
could tell that Shadowpaw was having a hard 
time. He felt sorry for him, but at the same 
time oddly comforted. 
I thought I was the only one who felt like 
an outsider, not quite fitting into my Clan. 
Now here’s Shadowpaw, and he’s struggling 
too. It feels . . . sort of good, knowing there’s 
another cat with the same problems. 
Besides, it was a relief to realize that Tree 
wasn’t the only Clan cat whose powers made 
him seem odd.

“I know I can’t really help you,” he meowed 
to Shadowpaw, “but I’ll walk with you for part 
of the way, if that would make you feel better.” 
Shadowpaw blinked at him gratefully. “I’d 
like that.” 
The two cats padded along side by side. The 
cold was deepening as the last of the daylight 
died, and a chilly breeze rose from the lake. 
Rootpaw led the way up the bank and into the 
shelter of the trees. 
“You can be more than three tail-lengths 
from the edge of the lake when you’re with 
me,” he assured Shadowpaw. 
But they had hardly traveled more than a 
couple of fox-lengths in the forest when 
Rootpaw felt a sharp pain stab upward into his 
pad. He let out a yowl; lifting his paw, he saw a 
massive thorn sticking into it. 
“Just what I need!” he snapped, furious with 
himself. “Now my Clanmates will think I can’t 
even take a walk without getting hurt.”

“They never need to know,” Shadowpaw 
pointed out. “I’m a medicine-cat apprentice. I 
can treat you—it’s the least I can do, when 
you’re keeping me company.” 
“Okay, thanks.” Rootpaw sat down and stuck 
his paw out. 
“Give it a good lick, and get the thorn out,” 
Shadowpaw directed. “I’m going to look for 
some dock leaves.” 
Rootpaw did as he was told. Almost the 
whole of the thorn was buried in his pad, but 
eventually he managed to grip the shank in his 
teeth and draw it out. A trickle of blood came 
with it, and he licked that away. 
Meanwhile Shadowpaw returned with a 
couple of dock leaves in his jaws, and began 
chewing them up into a pulp. “This should make 
your paw feel better by the time you get back to 
camp,” he told Rootpaw as he spread the pulp 
over his pad. “But for now you’d better walk on 
three legs.”

“It feels better already,” Rootpaw 
responded, relaxing as the cool juices sank into 
his wound. “Thanks, Shadowpaw.” Kitepaw said 
that Shadowpaw is seriously weird, but I 
think he’s okay. 
By the time Shadowpaw had finished 
treating him, the leaf-bare gloom was 
deepening into night. “It’s getting late,” 
Rootpaw meowed. “I’ll have to get back to 
camp, or Dewspring will skin my pelt and use it 
to line his nest.” 
“That’s okay,” Shadowpaw assured him. “I’ll 
be fine from here. Thank you for keeping me 
company.” 
“Maybe I’ll see you at the next Gathering.” 
“I hope so.” Shadowpaw gave him a friendly 
nod and bounded away, heading back to the edge 
of the lake. 
“Good luck at the Moonpool!” Rootpaw 
called after him, then turned toward the camp, 
padding along with his injured paw carefully

raised. On the way, he couldn’t stop thinking 
about what Shadowpaw had told him. 
Could something bad really happen to all 
the Clans? 
He was so caught up in his thoughts that as 
he brushed through the rocks at the camp 
entrance, he ran straight into Reedclaw, who 
was on watch. 
“Where have you been?” the tabby she-cat 
asked. She gave his fur a deep sniff and added, 
“And why do you smell of ShadowClan?” 
Rootpaw froze. He couldn’t tell Reedclaw 
about his meeting with Shadowpaw. He’d 
promised not to tell any cat what they had 
talked about. 
“I stayed out a bit longer to hunt,” he 
explained. “I had Dewspring’s permission. I 
must have gotten too close to the ShadowClan 
border.” 
Reedclaw gave him a skeptical look from 
narrowed eyes. “Okay,” she mewed. “But get

back to your den now. Remember that you and 
Needlepaw have to take out all the soiled 
bedding in the morning.” 
Like I’d forget that! 
“I’ll go straight there,” Rootpaw promised, 
and padded off, conscious of Reedclaw’s gaze 
following him across the camp. He was 
relieved that she hadn’t questioned him further, 
and he had been able to keep his new friend’s 
secret. 
And I can use all four paws again, he 
thought. Shadowpaw is going to be a great 
medicine cat! 
Remembering the concern on the young 
cat’s face, he added to himself, I hope he finds 
what he’s looking for at the Moonpool.

Chapter 15 
Every hair on Shadowpaw’s pelt tingled with 
apprehension as he pushed his way through the 
line of bushes at the top of the hollow and 
emerged above the Moonpool. The last time he 
had been here alone, he had been struck by 
lightning—unless the other medicine cats were 
right, and he’d imagined it somehow. 
I must be flea-brained to risk that again, 
he told himself. I know I shouldn’t be here 
alone. But what else can I do? 
Stronger even than his fear was 
Shadowpaw’s conviction that he had to find out 
more about the voice that had warned him about 
the codebreakers, and especially the vision he 
had seen of his mother, Dovewing. This vision 
was different from his other visions that had 
come true—it hadn’t arrived with a seizure. 
And it had felt less like a vision than a

conversation with a cat he knew. So is it 
real . . . ? 
He had to know whether the vision was 
really from StarClan and figure out what it 
meant. 
Gazing down at the Moonpool, Shadowpaw 
saw that the icy covering was thicker still. 
Barely a glimmer of light fell on it from the 
heavily clouded sky. When Puddleshine had 
first brought him here, he had been 
overwhelmed by the Moonpool’s beauty. Now 
it seemed ominous, and it took all Shadowpaw’s 
courage to set his paws on the spiral path that 
led down to the water’s edge. But he had to be 
back in camp before dawn, or risk trouble from 
his mentor and his Clan leader. He had no time 
to waste. 
The night was dark and silent as Shadowpaw 
approached the pool. Stretching out one 
forepaw, he cleared away the loose snow from 
the frozen surface and closed his eyes as he

touched his nose to it. 
Cold spread through Shadowpaw’s body, 
gripping every nerve and muscle and seeming 
to freeze his blood, as if he were slowly turning 
to ice. He bore it as long as he could, but when 
finally he sat up again, breaking the contact, 
there had been no response from StarClan. 
Shadowpaw wasn’t sure whether he was sorry 
or relieved. 
But as Shadowpaw headed for the bottom of 
the path, ready to give up and go home, the 
voice spoke once again in his mind. “The 
codebreakers are still among you. . . .” 
Shadowpaw halted, sliding out his claws to 
dig deep into the hard ground, then stood 
motionless as if he really had turned to ice. 
“StarClan, you must be wrong this time!” he 
meowed aloud. “The cats you showed me last 
time are good cats.” 
An image of Dovewing flashed into his 
mind: her sleek gray pelt, her green eyes

shining with love for him or with defiance 
against anything that threatened her Clan or her 
kin.
“My mother is one of the strongest and 
most heroic cats in all the Clans,” he protested. 
“StarClan is never wrong,” the voice 
responded. “And you know it, Shadowpaw. The 
Clans have a code for a reason. It’s supposed to 
be followed.” The speaker’s voice had 
deepened into a growl. It’s a tom, Shadowpaw 
realized, and fear shook him from ears to tailtip. 
Who is he? What does he want? 
“Or do you not believe in the code 
yourself?” the voice continued, mocking. 
“Some medicine cat you are!” 
“I do believe in the code!” Shadowpaw 
insisted, indignation helping him to control his 
terror. “But I believe in my mother, too. And if I 
know she is a good cat, then who’s to say the 
other codebreakers aren’t too?” 
The voice made no reply, and as the

moments dragged by, Shadowpaw wondered if 
he had said something terrible, something that 
insulted this ancestral spirit who had spoken to 
him when all the other starry warriors had 
fallen silent. 
I don’t know everything about StarClan 
yet. Maybe they don’t like being questioned 
or contradicted. If this voice was the only 
connection the Clans still had to their warrior 
ancestors, and Shadowpaw had chased it 
away . . . If that’s true, then every cat will 
despise me—and they’d be right to. 
Then the voice spoke again. “Fine. Don’t 
listen to the messages at the Moonpool.” The 
tone was so low and menacing that ice trickled 
down Shadowpaw’s spine and every hair on his 
pelt lifted with the intensity of his fear. “Let the 
codebreakers live among you, until no cat 
respects the rules. See what happens then.” 
The warning shook Shadowpaw’s 
conviction. “But what if cats aren’t setting out

to break the code? Or what if they’ve stopped? 
Surely StarClan won’t punish them too 
severely. They won’t, will they? They can’t!” 
“The code must always be respected,” the 
voice continued. “The ways of the Clans cannot 
be scattered to the wind. Soon, Shadowpaw, you 
will see the consequences that will befall the 
Clans if cats ignore the code. Bramblestar will 
get sick, and it will seem that nothing can cure 
him.” 
“Bramblestar!” Shadowpaw gasped. “No! 
He’s a great leader. He never did anything 
wrong.” 
“Oh, of course not.” The voice was 
mocking. “The wonderful, respected leader of 
ThunderClan! However, the trouble coming to 
the Clans will fall on him first.” 
Shadowpaw gazed up into the darkness, 
wishing he could see the face of the warrior 
spirit who was saying these terrible things. He 
wanted to defy him and reject what he was

saying, but he couldn’t. He believed every word 
of it. “Isn’t there anything we can do?” he asked, 
his voice quavering. 
“Yes, there is a way,” the voice replied, the 
mocking tone giving way to reassurance. 
“Listen carefully, and I’ll tell you what you 
must do. . . .” 
Shadowpaw nodded, pricking his ears to 
take in the StarClan warrior’s instructions. But 
as the plan unfolded, he grew more and more 
uneasy. 
This sounds so dangerous . . . maybe even 
crazy. But who am I to question StarClan? He 
was only an apprentice. It would be arrogant of 
him to think that he knew better. 
Still, the thought of going back to the Clans 
and reporting what he had discovered made 
Shadowpaw feel a little sick. Puddleshine and 
Jayfeather would never go along with this . . . 
it goes against everything a medicine cat is

taught! He knew that many of the older 
medicine cats didn’t fully trust him. Coming 
back with a plan like this would only make them 
more convinced that Shadowpaw was crazy. 
Even if I could convince Alderheart and 
Puddleshine . . . Jayfeather won’t go along. 
He thinks I’m a stupid apprentice, and it’s all 
in my imagination. And now it was happening 
again. Why am I the only cat StarClan has 
given this message? No way will they ever 
believe me! 
But then Shadowpaw realized something. 
Bramblestar had seemed strong and healthy the 
last time Shadowpaw had seen him at the 
Gathering. If he suddenly got sick, then that 
would prove that StarClan’s warning was 
important. Then the medicine cats would listen 
to him. And if Bramblestar didn’t get sick, 
maybe Shadowpaw wouldn’t need to say 
anything. 
“Are you a strong cat?” the voice asked

him. “Are you ready to carry out my 
instructions?” 
“Yes, I will,” Shadowpaw replied. But 
before I do, he added privately to himself, 
there’s one cat I need to talk to. 
“Then go,” the voice ordered. “And 
remember—the future of the Clans rests on 
your shoulders.” 
Shadowpaw flinched. Not too much 
pressure, there. But he dared not refuse it, and 
the voice said nothing more. All he could do 
was obey. 
Exhausted by stress and fear, Shadowpaw 
toiled up the path that led away from the 
Moonpool, feeling as shaken as he had when 
Puddleshine had first taken him there. He had 
hoped that another encounter with the voice 
would have made him feel better. Instead he had 
a whole new set of worries. 
The journey back to ShadowClan territory 
had never seemed so long, but there was still no

sign of dawn in the sky when Shadowpaw 
staggered into camp and sneaked back into the 
medicine cats’ den. Puddleshine was asleep, 
snoring quietly, and Shadowpaw was able to 
curl up in his own nest without disturbing him. 
He sank at once into sleep, but his worries 
followed him even into his dreams. He was 
standing in the forest, looking down at 
Bramblestar, who lay unconscious at his paws. 
The ThunderClan leader’s eyes were closed, 
and white flakes of snow were settling in his 
dark tabby fur. 
Shadowpaw woke with a jerk. Gray light 
was shining into the den, and Puddleshine was 
already up and out somewhere. Gathering his 
courage, Shadowpaw headed across the camp 
and halted outside Tigerstar’s den. 
To his relief, Dovewing wasn’t there. 
Tigerstar was awake and grooming himself 
when Shadowpaw stuck his head inside. 
“Is something bothering you?” Tigerstar

asked, looking up and beckoning with his tail 
for his son to enter the den. Shadowpaw nodded 
solemnly. “Then come and tell me what it is.” 
Shadowpaw padded inside and sat next to 
his father. “Tigerstar,” he meowed grimly, “we 
have to talk.”

Chapter 16 
The last border patrols of the day had just left 
the camp, and the remaining cats of 
ThunderClan were milling around outside the 
warriors’ den while Squirrelflight organized 
them to go hunting. Though the fierce cold still 
gripped their territory, most of them seemed 
eager and optimistic, their eyes bright with 
purpose. 
Bristlefrost stood a little way apart, 
wondering how her Clanmates could act so 
cheerful. For a short while the sun had broken 
through the heavy clouds of leaf-bare, but no 
light had penetrated the darkness of her heart. 
“Hey, Bristlefrost!” Twigbranch called to 
her. “Do you want to hunt with us?” 
Normally Bristlefrost would have agreed at 
once, pleased to have been invited. All she had 
ever wanted was to be a warrior and hunt for her

Clan. But today she couldn’t summon up any 
enthusiasm. 
She shook her head. “No, thanks. I . . . er . . . 
there’s a thorn in my bedding and I need to get 
it out.” 
Twigbranch’s whiskers twitched as if she 
thought that was a feeble excuse, and 
Bristlefrost had to admit to herself that her 
Clanmate was right. She turned listlessly and 
was about to enter the den when she felt teeth 
fasten in her shoulder fur and turned her head 
to see her former mentor, Rosepetal. Ignoring 
Bristlefrost’s cry of protest, Rosepetal dragged 
her to a secluded spot between the outer 
branches of the den and the wall of the stone 
hollow. 
“What’s going on?” Bristlefrost asked, 
bewildered. 
“What’s going on with you?” the creamcolored 
she-cat challenged her. “You’ve just 
been made a full warrior, and that was always

your dream—or so I thought. So why are you 
moping around camp like some cat stole your 
prey?” 
Bristlefrost didn’t want to reply. She knew 
Rosepetal would just think she was being 
ridiculous, mooning over Stemleaf when the 
Clan had so many more important problems to 
face. But her feelings were still so sharp, so 
overwhelming, that to her horror she found 
herself pouring out everything to her former 
mentor. 
“I really like Stemleaf,” she confessed. 
“And I was sure that we were meant to be 
mates, just as soon as I became a warrior. But 
he wasn’t thinking about that at all.” Her voice 
shook with misery as she remembered that 
terrible conversation. “The whole time, he’s 
wanted to be mates with Spotfur. I’ve been 
working so hard, and now . . . it feels like it’s all 
been for nothing.” 
Rosepetal nodded. To Bristlefrost’s

surprise, her eyes were kind. “I know exactly 
how you feel,” she meowed. “I’ve been in that 
position myself.” 
Bristlefrost’s tail shot up in amazement. 
“You have?” She found it hard to believe that 
Rosepetal—such a beautiful, graceful she-cat, 
with all the skills a warrior needed—had ever 
pined for something she couldn’t have. 
“Of course,” Rosepetal went on calmly. 
“Every cat has been there at least once. I know 
how painful it is when something, or some cat, 
that you’ve set your heart on doesn’t work out.” 
“How did you get through it?” Bristlefrost 
asked. 
“I focused on the things I could control,” 
Rosepetal replied. “Like being the best warrior 
I could be. And you can do the same. All your 
training isn’t a waste if you can use it for the 
good of your Clan. And maybe one day you’ll 
find the right mate. You’re a young cat; there’s 
no rush. Meanwhile, your Clan needs you.”

Bristlefrost nodded slowly. Though 
Stemleaf’s rejection still hurt, Rosepetal’s 
words made sense. Maybe she was right. Maybe 
Bristlefrost just needed to find her purpose 
within the Clan. 
“Thank you,” she murmured. “I’ll try my 
best.” 
“Good.” Rosepetal swished her tail with 
satisfaction. “Now, if you’re up to it, your 
Clanmates are getting ready to hunt. They could 
really use your help, and if you hurry, there’s 
still time for you to join them.” 
Bristlefrost nodded, and rushed around the 
side of the den to where the cats were 
assembling. Most of them had already left, but 
one group remained, gathering around the Clan 
leader. 
Seeing that Stemleaf was part of the group, 
Bristlefrost hesitated, almost changing her 
mind. Then she remembered what Rosepetal 
had said and held her head high as she joined

the others. 
I am a warrior, she reminded herself. I 
have a job to do. 
Stemleaf tried to catch her eye, beckoning 
with his tail in a welcoming gesture, but 
Bristlefrost wasn’t ready to face him yet. 
Instead she looked away, focusing on 
Bramblestar, who was issuing some final 
instructions, with Squirrelflight by his side. 
“I know prey is scarce,” he meowed. “But 
you shouldn’t bother coming back until you 
have something to show for your efforts. If 
you’re real warriors, you’ll freeze your paws 
off if you have to, for the survival of your 
Clan.” 
As she listened, Bristlefrost grew uneasy at 
the tone of her leader’s words. His voice 
sounded rougher than usual, not like the calm, 
measured leader Bristlefrost had always 
admired. 
Squirrelflight seemed to share her

misgivings. “Aren’t you being a little harsh?” 
she murmured to Bramblestar. “All the warriors 
are doing their best under very difficult 
conditions.” 
Bramblestar whipped his head around to 
face her, a hostile light in his eyes. “You would 
make excuses for them,” he snapped. “You 
always had a soft spot for weak cats.” 
Squirrelflight stared at him as if she 
couldn’t believe what he had said to her. 
Bristlefrost heard one or two stifled gasps 
from the cats around her and saw them 
exchanging uncomfortable glances. 
Every cat knew that not many moons had 
passed since Squirrelflight and Leafpool had 
been gravely injured in a rockslide. Leafpool 
had died, and Squirrelflight had nearly died, her 
spirit walking in StarClan as her body healed. In 
part, it was her love for Bramblestar, and his for 
her, that had drawn her back into the living 
world.

So why is he being so mean to her now? 
A heartbeat later, Bramblestar seemed to 
realize that he had gone too far. “I’m sorry if 
I’m being too stern,” he mumbled. “It’s just that 
my responsibilities as leader are weighing 
more heavily on me in these hard times. I can’t 
just stand by and see my Clan starve.” 
“It’s okay,” Squirrelflight mewed, touching 
his shoulder with her tail-tip. “We understand.” 
Maybe you do, Bristlefrost thought. I’m 
not sure I could be so forgiving. 
“I’ll lead this hunt myself,” Bramblestar 
announced abruptly. Without another word, he 
stalked off toward the camp entrance. 
Squirrelflight gathered the remaining warriors 
with a wave of her tail, and they followed their 
Clan leader out into the forest. 
“Was that weird or what?” 
Bristlefrost started as she realized that 
Stemleaf had fallen into step beside her. For a 
moment she was so concerned by what she had

just heard and seen that she scarcely reacted to 
having the cat she loved padding along so close 
to her. She simply nodded, wide-eyed, then 
slowed her pace until she was trailing behind 
the rest of the group. 
Bristlefrost knew that this leaf-bare had 
been tough on every cat. They were all getting 
more irritable than usual. But if even 
Bramblestar, usually so even-tempered, was 
being affected, perhaps things were worse than 
she had realized. 
This just shows that Rosepetal is right, 
she thought. I have to dedicate myself to being 
the best warrior I can be. Nothing is more 
important than ThunderClan’s survival—not 
even my heart. 
The cats padded through the snow-covered 
forest, their ears pricked for the least sound 
and their jaws parted to taste the air for the 
scent of prey. Soon Bristlefrost’s paws were so

numb she couldn’t feel them, and even her thick 
gray pelt was no protection against the probing 
claws of cold. 
Now and again Bramblestar would signal 
with his tail for the hunting patrol to halt. They 
would raise their noses in the air, checking 
even more carefully for scent on every passing 
breeze. But however hard they tried, no cat 
could pick up the least trace of prey. 
Moving along after one of these stops, 
Bristlefrost noticed that there was something 
strange about the way that Bramblestar was 
walking. Usually the ThunderClan leader passed 
through the forest as silent as the wind. Now he 
slammed his paws down, breaking twigs and 
crushing dead leaves. 
If there is any prey out here, he’ll drive it 
all away, making that racket, Bristlefrost 
thought. 
Squirrelflight was staring uneasily at 
Bramblestar as he blundered around a tree

stump and stumbled over a projecting root. 
“Bramblestar,” she began, bounding up to 
him, “are you—” 
Bramblestar turned on her savagely. “For 
StarClan’s sake,” he hissed, “leave me alone! 
I’m fine. I don’t need—” 
He broke off with a choking cry. 
Bristlefrost watched in horror as his legs 
buckled and he sank to the ground. He made 
one attempt to rise, his forepaws scrabbling in 
the snow, then flopped back into an unmoving 
heap. Yowls of consternation came from the 
nearby cats. Bristlefrost let out a gasp of 
dismay and raced up to Bramblestar’s side. 
Squirrelflight was already checking on him. 
“He’s breathing,” she meowed, her green 
eyes wide with fear. “But I can’t wake him.” 
“What do you want us to do?” Bristlefrost 
asked. 
Squirrelflight was clearly making a massive

effort to pull herself together. “We have to get 
him back to the medicine cats’ den,” she 
replied. “Jayfeather and Alderheart will know 
what he needs.” 
Bristlefrost looked helplessly around her. 
Some of the warriors were spread out, 
absorbed in their search for prey, still unaware 
of what had happened, while others clustered 
around, gazing in horror at their fallen leader. 
“What about the hunt?” Bristlefrost asked. 
“Bramblestar told us not to go back to camp 
until we’d caught something.” 
“He’s in no position to give orders right 
now,” Squirrelflight pointed out. “I’ll stay 
behind and finish the hunt with the rest of the 
patrol. Bramblestar will need something to eat 
if he’s to recover from this . . . whatever it is,” 
she added, a slight tremor in her voice. “Will 
you and Stemleaf take him back to camp?” 
For a moment, Bristlefrost tensed. She 
hadn’t been alone with Stemleaf since that

dreadful day she had told him how she felt 
about him. But she refused to think about that. 
Their Clan leader needed help; she and 
Stemleaf had to give it to him. 
While Squirrelflight gathered the remaining 
warriors together, Stemleaf crouched down in 
the snow beside Bramblestar, and Bristlefrost 
pushed their leader onto his back. He was so 
deeply unconscious that he didn’t react at all to 
being moved. 
“Uh . . . he’s a heavy cat!” Stemleaf gasped 
as he staggered to his paws. “And he’s cold. It 
feels like I’m carrying a load of snow.” 
With Bristlefrost walking alongside and 
steadying Bramblestar on Stemleaf’s back, they 
slowly made their way through the forest. 
Bramblestar lay limp, his paws dangling; only 
the slight movement of his whiskers told 
Bristlefrost that he was still breathing. 
When they reached the stone hollow, 
Thornclaw, who was on watch, took one look at

them and raced across the camp to the 
medicine cats’ den. A few moments later he 
emerged from behind the bramble screen, with 
Alderheart just behind him. 
“What happened?” Alderheart asked, 
hurrying up to Bramblestar’s side. 
While Stemleaf carried Bramblestar into 
the den, Bristlefrost explained how 
Bramblestar had seemed to lose his focus in 
the hunt, and then had collapsed and not moved 
or spoken since. 
“That doesn’t make any sense,” Alderheart 
murmured. 
Bristlefrost felt a jolt of fear at her heart. 
She had assumed that once Bramblestar 
reached the medicine cats, they would know 
what to do. Instead Alderheart was gazing at 
him with all the confusion and worry that she 
felt. Of course—Bramblestar wasn’t only 
Alderheart’s Clan leader; he was his father too. 
At Alderheart’s direction, she pulled

together moss and bracken from the store in 
the den to make a nest for Bramblestar. 
Stemleaf lowered him gently into it. 
“He’s so cold,” Alderheart mewed, 
stretching out a paw to touch Bramblestar’s 
forehead. “I just don’t understand. He was fine 
when he left for the hunt. How did he get sick 
so quickly?” 
Neither Bristlefrost nor Stemleaf could 
answer that question. 
“Is he losing a life?” Bristlefrost asked. 
Alderheart shook his head. “No, not yet. 
But if we can’t give him the right treatment 
soon, he will.” 
Leaving his father’s side, Alderheart padded 
to the back of the den where the medicine cats 
kept their herbs. Bristlefrost lingered, watching 
him curiously; he was sorting through the 
various heaps, but he didn’t seem to know what 
he was looking for. 
As she watched, the bramble screen at the

entrance to the den was brushed back, and 
Jayfeather appeared. He halted, sniffing, then 
asked, “Bramblestar’s here? What’s 
happening?” 
Alderheart came forward again and 
explained to Jayfeather what Bristlefrost had 
told him. “Bramblestar needs treatment,” he 
finished. “But I’m not sure what to do for him.” 
“I’ll examine him,” Jayfeather began, then 
broke off and swung around so that he was 
facing Bristlefrost; she found it hard to believe 
that he couldn’t see her. 
“What are you doing, hanging about here 
like a spare piece of prey?” he demanded. “Out. 
Now.” 
“Okay.” Bristlefrost turned to go, hearing 
Jayfeather ask if Alderheart had given 
Bramblestar anything. 
“No, I haven’t gotten that far yet,” 
Alderheart replied. 
As he spoke, Bristlefrost heard a sudden

rustling, and a weak voice calling, “Alderheart?” 
Bristlefrost spun around to see Bramblestar 
struggling to sit up, his amber eyes wide and 
intense. Alderheart sprang to his side, 
supporting his father against his shoulder. 
“Alderheart . . . I must talk to you.” 
Bramblestar’s voice was weak, his words 
separated by desperate gasps, his chest heaving 
with the effort of speaking. 
“No, you have to rest,” Alderheart mewed. 
“You’re here in my den; we’ll take care of you.” 
“No . . .” Bramblestar’s tail lashed once and 
for a moment Bristlefrost caught a glimpse of 
the strong and positive leader he had always 
been. “Listen. I had a terrible dream. . . .” 
“Let him talk,” Jayfeather meowed. 
“Whatever it is, he needs to get it off his 
chest.” 
“I saw the Clans fighting one another,” 
Bramblestar went on, his voice strengthening 
slightly. “Everything was chaos. The sky was

dark—there were no stars, only a thin clawscratch 
of a moon. And then even that faded, 
and I couldn’t see the cats anymore. I could 
only hear their terrible howls and screeches as 
the battle went on.” 
Alderheart stifled a gasp, deep trouble in 
his face. “There were no stars . . . ,” he 
whispered. 
“Is it true?” Bramblestar asked. “Has 
StarClan forsaken us?” 
Alderheart glanced up at Jayfeather, then 
back at his father. At the same moment, 
Bristlefrost saw Jayfeather’s expression 
change to mingled anger and panic. 
“Alderheart!” Jayfeather took a pace toward 
the younger medicine cat, his tail raised as if to 
prevent the younger cat from speaking. 
Alderheart shook his head slightly. “The 
time for silence is over,” he told Jayfeather. 
“Yes, it’s true,” he responded to his father’s 
question. “StarClan still isn’t sending us

messages, and we don’t know why.” 
Bristlefrost felt a jolt in her belly as if 
some cat had thrown a rock at her. I had no 
idea! she thought. Still nothing from StarClan, 
moons later? Is that why Jayfeather and 
Alderheart have been looking so stressed 
lately? 
“The medicine cats decided we would say 
nothing!” Jayfeather snapped. “Alderheart, you 
agreed—” 
“You can’t hide StarClan’s abandonment 
from the leaders!” Bramblestar interrupted 
him. “It’s far too serious. Alderheart, you were 
right to be honest.” His chest heaved again, his 
back arching, as if he was struggling to stay 
conscious. His voice rasped as he continued, 
“I’ll remember you were honest, when not 
many cats were.” 
And what does that mean? Bristlefrost 
wondered. Jayfeather looked taken aback, as if 
he didn’t understand it, either.

“Action must be taken,” Bramblestar went 
on, still in the same throaty tone. “But 
Alderheart, you shouldn’t be afraid. You’ve 
done the right thing by telling me.” 
“What action?” Alderheart asked, his 
expression uncertain. “Bramblestar, tell us what 
you want us to do.” 
Another spasm shook Bramblestar’s body, 
and his voice had weakened again as he replied, 
“Fetch Squirrelflight. . . . Tell the leaders. . . . 
You must get back in touch with StarClan!” 
Alderheart looked up and spotted 
Bristlefrost still standing beside the entrance 
to the den. “Fetch Squirrelflight,” he repeated. 
Bristlefrost nodded, but before she could 
move, another convulsion shook Bramblestar. 
He reared up out of his nest, all four paws 
lashing as if he was trying to attack an enemy. 
His head was thrown back, his jaws stretched 
wide in a terrible silent wailing. Then he went 
limp and collapsed to lie unmoving among the

moss and bracken.

Chapter 17 
A blustering wind flattened Rootpaw’s fur to 
his sides and made his eyes water as he gazed 
down at the medicine cats around the frozen 
Moonpool. He couldn’t believe that he had 
been chosen to come here and witness this 
desperate attempt to make contact with 
StarClan, along with three of the Clan leaders 
and many senior warriors. He stared in wonder 
at the icy cascade where a stream had frozen as 
it poured down into the pool, and at the frosty 
glitter of icicles hanging from the rocks. 
The medicine cats were padding restlessly 
around the pool. From time to time one of 
them would stretch out a paw and touch the 
surface, as if they were testing the ice. 
Rootpaw noticed that none of them looked 
happy about what they were doing; Mothwing 
and Jayfeather especially seemed edgy, their

anxiety clear in their twitching tails and 
whiskers. 
Rootpaw’s sister, Needlepaw, stood beside 
him, and just behind them their parents, 
Violetshine and Tree. They waited at the top of 
the hollow, inside the line of bushes, at a 
respectful distance from the pool itself. 
Alongside, stretching out in a line, were the 
representatives of the other Clans. 
I know this is an honor and all, Rootpaw 
thought, flexing his claws in a futile effort to 
keep his paws warm. But I wish they would get 
on with it! 
“What are they doing down there?” he 
asked, not really expecting an answer. “If the 
water is frozen solid, what can they do? It’s not 
like they can start chipping away at the ice with 
their claws, right?” 
“The leaders have suggested using a thick 
branch,” Tree told him. “If they position it over 
a rock, they can lever it to hit the ice much

harder. They hope that breaking the ice will 
help the medicine cats contact StarClan.” 
Rootpaw tried and failed to imagine any cat 
doing that. I wonder whose mouse-brained 
idea that was! 
“I don’t understand what point there is in 
warriors being here at all,” Needlepaw mewed, 
shivering and fluffing out her fur against the 
cold. “We’re not allowed down by the pool, so 
what good can we do any cat, standing up here 
freezing our paws off?” 
“The medicine cats asked us to come, 
because they might need help,” Violetshine 
responded. “And it shows StarClan how 
determined we all are to get in contact with our 
ancestors again.” 
“But are warriors even supposed to be 
here?” Needlepaw asked. “I thought the 
Moonpool was only for medicine cats.” 
Tree and Violetshine exchanged a glance. 
“That’s how Fidgetflake sees it, too,” Tree

replied. “But Frecklewish and some of the 
leaders feel . . . differently.” 
“They think that reconnecting with StarClan 
is more important than tiptoeing around the 
Moonpool,” Violetshine explained. 
“So what will happen if they can’t break 
through the ice?” Rootpaw asked, hoping to 
change the subject. 
A new voice broke into the conversation. “I 
don’t know.” 
Rootpaw turned to see Bristlepaw standing 
nearby, at the edge of the group of ThunderClan 
cats. It was the first time they had met since the 
embarrassing incident with the vole, and 
Rootpaw wasn’t sure how he should behave 
around her. He was aware of Needlepaw 
watching him with a teasing look in her eyes, 
but he ignored her with a twitch of his tail and 
padded over to join the ThunderClan 
apprentice. 
Then he noticed that there was something

different about Bristlepaw: a sadness in her 
eyes that hadn’t been there before. I hope it’s 
not because she feels sorry for me. 
“Hi, Bristlepaw,” he meowed. 
Bristlepaw took a pace forward that brought 
her to his side. “It’s Bristlefrost,” she told him. 
“I’m a warrior now.” 
“Hey, that’s great!” Rootpaw was pleased 
for her, but even more confused. If she’s just 
been made a warrior, why doesn’t she look 
happy? “Congratulations.” 
“Thanks, Rootpaw. I wanted to see you,” 
Bristlefrost went on, “because I need to tell 
you how sorry I am for the way I behaved when 
you brought me the vole. I was rude and 
ungrateful.” 
Rootpaw dipped his head. “Don’t worry 
about it,” he mewed. “I know it was stupid, and I 
shouldn’t have done it.” 
“No, you didn’t do anything wrong,” 
Bristlefrost insisted. “You did a kind thing for

me, and I treated you horribly. Please forgive 
me, Rootpaw.” 
“Of course I do!” Rootpaw replied, 
happiness spurting up inside him. But the 
feeling quickly died as he saw how sad 
Bristlefrost looked. “What’s wrong?” he asked 
her. “You look a little down.” 
Bristlefrost hesitated, staring down at her 
paws. “Things haven’t been going the way I 
hoped since I became a warrior,” she admitted 
eventually. 
“What do you mean?” Rootpaw asked. 
“Oh . . . This leaf-bare is hard on every cat, 
and I don’t feel I’ve done enough to help my 
Clan. Right now I’m feeling kind of useless.” 
Rootpaw could understand that, but all the 
same he didn’t feel it was enough to explain the 
sorrow in Bristlefrost’s eyes. Whatever was on 
her mind, for now at least she was keeping it to 
herself. 
“But you’re one of the greatest cats I’ve

ever met,” Rootpaw protested, even though he 
knew the praise might make her squirm. I still 
feel the same about her, even after that stupid 
episode with the vole. “You saved my life when 
my own Clanmates were too scared even to try. 
If it weren’t for you, I’d be at the bottom of the 
lake right now, frozen solid like the medicine 
cats say the Moonpool is. And you came to 
check on me every day while I was recovering.” 
Bristlefrost shrugged; she looked a little 
embarrassed, but not, Rootpaw thought, angry 
with him. “Any cat would have done that,” she 
meowed. “But what have I done since?” 
“No warrior can do much while this leafbare 
lasts,” Rootpaw stated firmly. “And once 
it’s over, you’ll be one of the warriors who gets 
your Clan back on its paws. I’m sure of it.” 
Bristlefrost looked up; her eyes glowed, 
making Rootpaw’s heart flutter weirdly in his 
chest. For a moment he felt that there was 
more than gratitude in her gaze.

“Bristlefrost—” he began. 
An earsplitting crack from below 
interrupted Rootpaw. He spun around to stare 
down into the hollow. It was so much louder 
than the sound of the ice breaking on the lake 
when he’d fallen in—it must mean that the 
medicine cats had broken through. Yet when the 
echo died away, it was followed by complete 
silence. The group of medicine cats stood 
ranged around the pool, gazing down at the 
surface. 
“Do you know what’s supposed to happen 
when the ice breaks?” Rootpaw asked, turning 
back to Bristlefrost. 
The gray she-cat shook her head. “I have no 
idea,” she replied. “Only medicine cats can 
commune with StarClan, right? Maybe it 
worked and we just can’t see them.” 
Rootpaw felt every hair on his pelt rising at 
the thought that warriors of StarClan might be 
gathered around the Moonpool, invisible. “It’s

so weird, watching the medicine cats like this,” 
he murmured. 
Bristlefrost did not speak for a moment, 
ears angled down toward the pool. “Listen,” she 
continued. “I can hear the medicine cats 
murmuring among themselves. That’s probably 
not a good sign.” 
Rootpaw nodded agreement as he heard the 
muted meows drifting upward from the cats 
around the pool. Glancing beyond Bristlefrost, 
wondering how the other Clans were reacting, 
he felt that something wasn’t quite right, and it 
took him a few heartbeats to work out what it 
was.
“Why are there no ShadowClan cats here?” 
he asked. 
It was Needlepaw who replied. “I overheard 
Violetshine telling Tree that ShadowClan wasn’t 
invited, because of the weirdness with their 
medicine-cat apprentice. The other Clans are 
wondering if he might be the problem.”

“You mean they think Shadowpaw is the 
reason why StarClan isn’t communicating?” 
Rootpaw asked. 
“Some cats do,” Needlepaw replied. 
Rootpaw thought back to his conversation 
with Shadowpaw in the twilit woods, when the 
apprentice was on his way to the Moonpool. He 
had seemed really worried; he had spoken about 
something bad coming to all the Clans. 
Rootpaw thought he seemed kind, and clearly 
Shadowpaw was already a skilled medicine-cat 
apprentice. 
He treated my wounded paw, and it 
healed really quickly. How could a healer like 
that be the problem? 
Rootpaw wanted to ask Bristlefrost or 
Needlepaw that question, but he couldn’t do so 
without revealing that Shadowpaw had been 
sneaking off to the Moonpool on his own. And 
I walked part of the way with him when I 
should have been hunting. No way can I tell

that to any cat! 
Lost in his thoughts about Shadowpaw, 
Rootpaw hadn’t noticed that Frecklewish had 
begun to climb the spiral path toward the 
waiting warriors. But now he saw that she had 
reached the top of the hollow and stood facing 
them. She looked weary and dejected, and 
Rootpaw realized there had been no 
communication with StarClan. 
“We have dented the ice,” Frecklewish 
announced, “but we haven’t hit water yet. The 
pool may be frozen all the way through.” 
Murmurs and gasps of consternation came 
from the Clan cats, and they exchanged glances 
of dismay. 
“We may need your help in breaking the ice 
after all,” Frecklewish added. 
“No. We did not agree to that.” Jayfeather 
had climbed the path behind Frecklewish, and 
now stood at her side, his tabby fur bristling 
with indignation. “The Moonpool is the special

place shown to us by StarClan, and it should 
only be touched by medicine cats.” 
“We’ve already discussed this, Jayfeather,” 
Frecklewish retorted, her pelt too beginning to 
rise. “The Moonpool is only special because 
it’s the way that we can reach StarClan. And if 
we can’t do that, and they can’t reach us either, 
then isn’t it our job to do everything we can to 
help StarClan get through?” 
Jayfeather’s only reply was a hiss of 
indignation as he turned his head away. 
Meanwhile, the remaining medicine cats 
had left the side of the pool and joined the 
others at the top of the hollow. “What do the 
Clan leaders think?” Alderheart asked. “Tell us 
what you want to do.” 
Leafstar, Mistystar, and Harestar glanced 
toward Squirrelflight, the ThunderClan deputy. 
Earlier she had told the others that Bramblestar 
couldn’t make the journey to the Moonpool 
because he had hurt his paw hunting.

“What do you think?” Leafstar asked her. “I 
understand Bramblestar is very concerned that 
no cat can make contact with StarClan. That’s 
why we started this whole operation.” 
Squirrelflight looked torn, as if she wasn’t 
sure how to reply. “Yes, Bramblestar is 
concerned,” she began, “but . . .” Her voice 
trailed off and she looked down at her paws. 
“Well, I’m inclined to agree with 
Frecklewish,” Leafstar meowed. “At the gorge, 
our medicine cats never had any trouble 
connecting with our ancestors.” 
Harestar twitched his whiskers nervously. 
“Yes, I agree too. WindClan has suffered the 
worst of this harsh weather. Hunting is nearly 
impossible, and my cats are starving. We need 
StarClan’s guidance, so we must do all we can 
to restore the connection.” 
“What do you think, Mistystar?” Leafstar 
asked, when the RiverClan leader did not speak. 
Mistystar shook her head. “I’m not sure . . .

,” she responded reluctantly. “I understand that 
the medicine cats have different feelings about 
this. So I’d rather leave RiverClan’s decision in 
the paws of my medicine cats.” 
Mothwing and Willowshine exchanged a 
glance. “I’m not sure the warriors should help,” 
Willowshine mewed. “But I miss StarClan’s 
advice as much as any cat. I’ll go with the 
majority decision.” 
“So will I,” Mothwing added. 
Every cat turned to look at Squirrelflight, 
who sighed and seemed reluctant to speak. “I 
must vote with Bramblestar,” she stated at last; 
Rootpaw could see the tension in her gaze. “He 
believes that we desperately need StarClan’s 
guidance. The warriors should break the ice.” 
At Squirrelflight’s words the medicine cats 
stood back to allow the warriors to take the 
spiral path. The Clan leaders led the way, their 
tails waving as they charged downward to the 
edge of the pool. Rootpaw was aware of

Jayfeather glaring at them, his fur bushed out 
until the scrawny cat looked twice his normal 
size. Rootpaw hung back, a mixture of confusion 
and despair dragging at his paws. Is this right? 
he asked himself. 
Behind him, Tree abruptly stopped. “I don’t 
think I can do this,” he said aloud. 
A chorus of surprise came from the cats 
surrounding them. “What does that mean?” 
Birchfall, from ThunderClan, asked. Rootpaw 
thought his tone was a little hostile. 
Tree didn’t look bothered as he stared back 
at the ThunderClan cat. “It doesn’t feel right,” 
he said simply. “I don’t fully understand all your 
Clan beliefs, but I know that the Moonpool is a 
sacred place. I know that the medicine cats have 
special powers. I’m not sure we should be 
intruding.” 
Rootpaw wished the ground would open up 
and swallow him whole. Please stop, please

stop, he wished fiercely. They already think 
you’re strange enough. 
“You’re a warrior now, Tree,” Crowfeather, 
the WindClan deputy, meowed irritably. “It’s 
not your job to decide what’s right. It’s your job 
to obey your leader.” 
“And Leafstar said yes,” Birchfall added. 
All eyes turned to Leafstar, who was 
watching the scene from the bottom of the 
spiral path, where she stood with Squirrelflight. 
The SkyClan leader looked torn. 
“I’m not a warrior,” Tree clarified. “I’m a 
mediator. And as mediator, it troubles me that 
ShadowClan was not included in this effort. I 
believe I made that clear before.” 
Leafstar’s eyes flashed with annoyance. 
“That was the leaders’ decision.” 
“But why?” Tree asked. “Because their 
medicine-cat apprentice is a little odd? Who’s 
not?” Rootpaw cringed. He wondered whether, if

he wished hard enough, he might become 
invisible. 
By now Tree’s argument was holding up the 
procession of warriors. Some cats behind him 
grumbled in annoyance, but others seemed 
swayed by his argument. 
“Maybe we shouldn’t be touching the 
Moonpool,” Spotfur, a she-cat from 
ThunderClan, mewed, looking thoughtful. “I 
wouldn’t want to upset any cat . . . dead or 
alive.” 
“The medicine cats have always said the 
Moonpool is sacred,” Stemleaf agreed. “Should 
we believe that’s changed, just because we’re 
desperate to hear from StarClan?” 
“Oh, come on.” Rootpaw’s heart leaped at 
the sound of Bristlefrost’s voice. The 
ThunderClan warrior swerved around her two 
Clanmates to continue along the path. “You all 
heard the leaders. We have to do whatever we 
can to reach StarClan!”

But Tree, Stemleaf, and Spotfur all still 
hesitated. Tree’s gaze was leveled squarely on 
his leader. 
Leafstar flicked her tail in annoyance. “Very 
well,” she said. “Any SkyClan cat who doesn’t 
feel comfortable touching the Moonpool, turn 
back. Your objections have been heard.” 
Tree nodded, satisfied. Then he turned and 
began walking up the spiral path, pushing his 
way past a cluster of RiverClan warriors who 
were still heading down. Rootpaw heard them 
grumble in annoyance. 
He looked at his mother, Violetshine, who 
watched Tree leave with a bemused expression. 
Finally she turned to face Rootpaw, who shot 
her a questioning look. But she shook her head 
slightly and continued down the spiral path. 
“I’m following Tree,” Needlepaw said 
decisively from behind Rootpaw. “I’m not sure 
this is right.” She turned back to follow her 
father.

“All ThunderClan warriors,” Squirrelflight 
called in a tight voice, “we need you to help 
break the ice. As your acting leader, I command 
you to help!” 
Rootpaw could hear the grumbles of 
Spotfur and Stemleaf. His own paws trembled 
with indecision. Does Tree have a point? Is 
this right? 
But then he saw Bristlefrost stroll past him, 
following Violetshine. She glanced at Rootpaw 
and winked. 
Without another thought, he fell into step 
behind the ThunderClan warrior. 
I’m in. 
“One, two, three!” Crowfeather yelled a few 
moments later. Rootpaw pressed his forepaws 
against the back of a huge, long, flat rock, 
squeezed between the bodies of countless 
warriors from four Clans. “Now!” 
They all heaved forward, grunting, and

managed to push the rock up onto the first of 
two logs. Alderheart, it seemed, had found the 
rock lying against the wall of the Moonpool 
cave, and Crowfeather, Hawkwing, and 
Reedwhisker had worked together to organize 
the warriors to move it closer to the Moonpool 
itself. It was the hope of the three deputies, 
who’d taken charge of the scene, that once the 
rock was placed across three logs, the warriors 
could push it to the edge of the Moonpool, then 
push it in. They all hoped that the rock was 
heavy enough—and, when turned on its end, 
sharp enough—to break through the final layer 
of ice. 
Rootpaw’s shoulders ached. Even with 
countless warriors’ help, the rock was heavy. 
Which was exactly why they all hoped it would 
work. As Crowfeather and the other deputies 
ordered the warriors into place for the next 
push, Rootpaw rose up on his hind legs and

stared into the Moonpool. He wasn’t sure what 
he’d been expecting—maybe something deep, 
clear, shrouded with fog and stars. Something 
clearly mystical, touched by StarClan. But now, 
at least, the Moonpool simply looked like a 
block of grayish-white ice sunk into a dark 
rocky bank. The medicine cats had made a 
break in the ice and dug out an uneven chunk, 
now pushed off to the side. It had left a wide, 
triangular gash, which only revealed . . . more 
ice.
How far down does the ice go? Rootpaw 
wondered. From their whispers and mumblings, 
he knew many of the other warriors were 
wondering the same thing. He couldn’t see any 
sign of water beneath. It felt different from the 
ice on the lake where he’d fallen in. There he’d 
been able to feel the ice give, to hear the 
sloshing of life below. 
In contrast, the Moonpool felt inert . . . 
almost dead, Rootpaw thought with despair.

Surely that can’t be good. 
He could only hope they’d succeed in 
bringing it back to life. 
“Warriors, places!” Hawkwing yelled. 
“We’re almost there! One, two . . .” 
Rootpaw scrambled back into place on the 
rock. And slowly, together, the warriors pushed 
the rock onto the logs. Working shoulder to 
shoulder, they were able to keep the rock on 
the logs, slide it slowly across, and push it to 
the edge of the Moonpool. 
“Now,” Hawkwing yelled, “we all rest for a 
moment . . . and, on the count of three, we push 
it over the edge!” 
Rootpaw panted, the cold air burning his 
lungs. He glanced around and caught the eye of 
Bristlefrost, who was on the outer edge of the 
group. She nodded at him and purred, and 
Rootpaw nodded back, sharing her sense of 
satisfaction. 
Even if it doesn’t work, he thought, at least

we’re doing something. Maybe that will 
impress StarClan? 
But then he saw Jayfeather on the other 
side of the Moonpool, his eyes cast down with 
a look of utter despair, like he’d lost his only 
friend. 
That is, if they’re not horribly offended 
that we touched the Moonpool . . . 
Rootpaw felt heavy inside. Had things 
always been this horribly complicated? 
“All right, everyone,” Reedwhisker yelled. 
“Take your places! . . . One . . . two . . .” 
Rootpaw pressed his forepaws against the 
rock, pushing with all his might. All the 
warriors around him did the same, letting out a 
massive groan as the rock inched forward. 
“Break!” Hawkwing yelled, and they all 
went limp, leaving the sharp edge of the rock 
dangling a few inches over the pool. Rootpaw 
tried to stretch his muscles. He knew they 
would all be sore in the morning.

Reedwhisker spoke up again after a few 
seconds. “Okay, places . . . One . . . two . . .” 
They pushed the rock forward some more. 
Rootpaw’s forelegs ached, and he wondered if 
they would ever succeed. Then, so suddenly he 
let out a gasp of surprise, Rootpaw felt no 
resistance. The rock slid over the side of the 
pool, its sharp end nosing forward into the gash 
the medicine cats had dug out. There was 
silence for a few seconds, then a huge crash as 
the tip of the rock made contact with the ice. 
“Hooray!” Breezepelt, from WindClan, 
yelled. 
“Don’t be mouse-brained,” Bristlefrost 
snapped at him. “We don’t know whether it 
broke through. . . .” 
At her words, all the warriors stepped 
forward to the edge of the pool to look down. 
But before he moved, Rootpaw glimpsed 
Jayfeather’s face. 
It hadn’t changed.

Breezepelt scrambled to the edge and 
looked down. “It made a big dent. But there’s 
still more ice!” 
Rootpaw felt his heart sink. 
“It goes at least five tail-lengths down,” 
Bristlefrost added, staring down into the pool. 
“So much ice . . .” 
Crowfeather was looking, too. “I suppose 
we can try again . . . ,” he meowed. But he 
sounded tired. As tired as Rootpaw felt. 
Hawkwing looked even less optimistic. “We 
can try countless times,” he agreed, “but we 
don’t know where the water begins . . . or 
whether it’s frozen solid.” 
Frozen solid. A shiver went through 
Rootpaw’s body at those words. 
He was willing to try again, as hard as it 
might be . . . to find another rock, to push it 
into the pool, to hope that it might break the 
ice. He was willing to work all day, if he had to. 
All night, too, if he had the strength.

But as he caught Bristlefrost’s eye again, he 
wondered if she was feeling the same despair 
he was. All the effort in the world wouldn’t 
bring StarClan back if they’d left them on 
purpose. 
What if StarClan has left us for good?

Chapter 18 
Bristlefrost stood in the shadow of a rock, 
gazing around the snow-covered clearing; she 
was alert to pick up any sign of prey. 
Mousewhisker, who was leading the hunting 
patrol, had disappeared with Berrynose around 
a holly bush, but she could still see Snaptooth, 
his golden tabby pelt standing out against the 
white of the snowbank where he was crouching. 
With all the tensions in the camp, 
Bristlefrost was finding it hard to concentrate. 
Bramblestar was still lying motionless in the 
medicine cats’ den, breathing but seeming 
unaware of anything going on around him. And 
the attempt to break the ice in the Moonpool, 
which had briefly given the Clan cats so much 
hope, had ended in failure. The Moonpool 
appeared to be frozen solid, and StarClan had 
remained stubbornly silent.

We could do with some good prey, 
Bristlefrost thought, though she had nearly 
given up hope of finding any. At least we’d all 
feel better if our bellies were full. 
Almost as soon as the thought went through 
her mind, Bristlefrost spotted a disturbance 
ahead of her, where rocks and tussocks of grass 
jutted out of a shallow, uneven slope. Some of 
the snow shifted and rolled down the bank in 
clumps, leaving a dark hole. A nose poked out, a 
pair of ears . . . 
A rabbit! 
Bristlefrost’s jaws started to water; it had 
been so long since she’d seen a rabbit, she 
could hardly believe it was there in front of her. 
It emerged from its burrow and hopped slowly 
forward, its forepaws scrabbling at the snow to 
uncover buried grass and vegetation. It seemed 
to have no idea of the danger waiting for it only 
a few fox-lengths away. 
Glancing across the clearing, Bristlefrost

realized that Snaptooth had spotted the rabbit 
too. His ears were pricked, his whiskers 
quivering, and his gaze was fixed on the 
creature as it nibbled at the frostbitten grass. 
Stay where you are! Bristlefrost wanted to 
yowl the words at her Clanmate, but she knew 
that their only hope of catching the prey was to 
stay still and silent until it was too far away 
from its burrow to dive safely back inside. 
Her heart was thumping so hard it was 
painful, and it took all her self-control not to 
hurl herself at the rabbit. What if it turns back, 
and all I’ve done is stand here and stare at 
it? 
Then Bristlefrost noticed that Snaptooth 
had flattened himself to the ground and begun 
to creep forward cautiously, working his way 
around to get between the rabbit and the 
burrow. The rabbit, too intent on feeding, didn’t 
notice his stealthy movement. We’ll have it 
trapped! Bristlefrost thought with delight, her

mouth watering. 
Once Snaptooth was in position, 
Bristlefrost lowered herself into the hunter’s 
crouch and prowled toward her prey, testing the 
ground with every paw step. But before she was 
close enough to pounce, a gust of wind passed 
over her. Bristlefrost froze, hoping the wind 
hadn’t been strong enough to carry her scent to 
her quarry. 
The rabbit sat upright, its ears erect and its 
nose twitching. Oh, no! Now it knows I’m here! 
Spinning around, her prey darted for its burrow, 
its strong hind legs thrusting it forward in 
massive leaps. But Snaptooth was waiting. As 
he bared his teeth and bunched his muscles for 
a pounce, the rabbit let out a squeal of terror 
and skidded to a halt in a flurry of snow. It 
doubled back and raced off at an angle, heading 
away from where Bristlefrost was waiting to 
complete the kill. 
Fox dung!

Snaptooth gave chase, but the rabbit was 
outpacing him. Bristlefrost almost despaired, 
until she remembered something Rosepetal had 
told her when she was an apprentice: Don’t run 
to where your prey is; run to where it’s going 
to be. 
Bristlefrost flung herself forward, aiming 
for a spot a few fox-lengths ahead of the 
fleeing rabbit. Dread stabbed into her belly at 
the thought of losing the best prey she’d seen 
in moons. If the rabbit changes direction, I’ve 
totally messed up! 
But the rabbit kept going. Bristlefrost 
leaped on top of it; hunter and prey rolled over 
and over in a whirl of legs, tail, and snow. Then 
Bristlefrost managed to fix her paw across the 
rabbit’s throat and dug her claws in deep. Blood 
gushed out and the rabbit went limp. 
“Thank you, StarClan, for this prey,” 
Bristlefrost panted as she staggered to her paws 
and shook snow out of her pelt. But is there

any point in thanking StarClan when they 
won’t talk to us? 
“Hey, great catch!” Snaptooth came 
bounding up. “It’s pretty plump, too.” 
Triumph surged through Bristlefrost. She 
felt better than she had since the dreadful day 
when she was made a warrior. “It’s your catch 
too,” she told her Clanmate. 
“Yeah, we make a great team!” Snaptooth 
purred. 
His words sent a pang of pain through 
Bristlefrost as she remembered what she had 
hoped for with Stemleaf. Even though she knew 
that Snaptooth meant no more than 
friendliness, that was a path where she refused 
to set her paws. 
“Let’s go and show Mousewhisker and 
Berrynose,” she meowed. “They went this way.” 
Carrying the rabbit, Bristlefrost padded 
across the clearing to the holly bush where the 
two senior warriors had disappeared. Skirting

the prickly branches, she halted at the sound of 
murmuring voices from the other side, and 
signaled with her tail for Snaptooth to do the 
same. 
Cautiously, Bristlefrost poked her head 
around the bush and spotted Berrynose and 
Mousewhisker huddled together in 
conversation, not even trying to hunt. 
“Lazy furballs!” Snaptooth exclaimed, 
peering over Bristlefrost’s shoulder. “Let’s 
show them the rabbit and make them feel really 
ashamed of themselves.” 
Bristlefrost shook her head. “No. I want to 
hear what’s so important they have to talk about 
it in secret.” 
With Snaptooth just behind her, Bristlefrost 
crept forward as far as she could while still 
remaining in the shelter of the bush. 
“. . . sickness is really bad,” Mousewhisker 
was mewing as Bristlefrost came into earshot. 
“And it’s getting worse. What will happen if

Bramblestar dies?” 
Berrynose shrugged helplessly. “When Clan 
leaders die, they go to StarClan and receive 
wisdom before they take up their next life and 
return to go on leading their Clan. But what 
happens if Bramblestar can’t reach StarClan? 
Will he just die, and never come back?” 
“And then what happens to ThunderClan?” 
Mousewhisker wondered. “Squirrelflight would 
be a good leader, but what if she can’t meet 
with StarClan and receive her nine lives?” 
“Then she’ll have to be our leader without 
StarClan,” Berrynose growled. “If StarClan is 
going to abandon us when we need them most, 
we can show them that we don’t need them!” 
Mousewhisker looked uncertain; 
Bristlefrost thought that he wasn’t ready to 
abandon reliance on the spirits of their warrior 
ancestors. “I wonder if this is what 
ShadowClan’s weird medicine-cat apprentice 
saw in his vision,” he meowed.

Berrynose let out a snort of disgust. “I 
don’t know. Jayfeather thinks he’s birdbrained, 
and you know ShadowClan . . . there’s a reason 
we didn’t invite them to help with the 
Moonpool! They’re about as trustworthy as a 
den of foxes,” he muttered. 
His voice began to die away, and 
Bristlefrost leaned closer, angling her ears 
forward to pick up the lower tones. But at that 
moment, Snaptooth sneezed, and both senior 
warriors looked up. 
Bristlefrost turned her head to glare at her 
Clanmate. “Thanks for that!” she hissed through 
her teeth. “Now we’ll never get to hear the rest 
of it.” Then she padded forward with the rabbit 
and dropped it at Mousewhisker’s paws. 
“Good job!” Berrynose exclaimed, swiping 
his tongue over his jaws as he stared at the prey. 
Mousewhisker gave Bristlefrost an 
approving nod. “Rosepetal taught you well,” he 
mewed.

“It was both of us,” Bristlefrost responded, 
flicking her tail toward Snaptooth, who ducked 
his head, obviously pleased. 
Bristlefrost’s feeling of triumph had 
returned, warming her as she headed back 
toward camp with the rest of the patrol. But at 
the same time, she couldn’t stop thinking about 
what the senior warriors had said. 
What will happen if Bramblestar loses a 
life?
Bristlefrost crouched beside the fresh-kill 
pile, sharing a mouse with her mother, Ivypool. 
Most of ThunderClan was gathered around, 
devouring the prey from the morning’s hunt. 
Pride bubbled up inside Bristlefrost as she saw 
the elders, along with Daisy, Sorrelstripe, and 
Sparkpelt from the nursery, all feasting on the 
rabbit she and Snaptooth had caught. 
No cat will go to their nest hungry 
tonight. I helped to care for my Clan.

But Bristlefrost was distracted from her 
feelings of satisfaction as a commotion rose 
outside the medicine cats’ den. Turning her 
head, she saw Squirrelflight plunge out from 
behind the bramble screen, then spin around to 
speak to some cat still inside. 
“I don’t want to talk about this! Bramblestar 
will get better.” Her words carried clearly 
across the camp. “The only reason he hasn’t is 
that you haven’t tried everything!” 
Alderheart followed the Clan deputy out of 
the den. Every cat in the Clan had fallen silent 
at Squirrelflight’s outburst, but the medicine 
cat remained calm. His voice as he responded 
was so quiet that Bristlefrost couldn’t make out 
the words. 
“You and Jayfeather must save your leader!” 
Squirrelflight snapped back at him. “I have 
complete faith in you, so there’s nothing to 
discuss.” With that she turned away and stalked 
across the camp to the fresh-kill pile, head and

tail held high. 
Alderheart’s gaze followed her, and 
Bristlefrost noticed how devastated he looked, 
his muzzle tight and his tail drooping. She 
could imagine how difficult it must be for a 
medicine cat to treat his own father, especially 
when he wasn’t getting better. Especially when 
that father was Clan leader, too. 
Glancing at Ivypool, Bristlefrost was 
grateful for the reassuring look in her mother’s 
eyes. “Don’t worry,” Ivypool murmured. But 
she still rose to her paws and went to sit at 
Squirrelflight’s side. 
Bristlefrost finished up the last few scraps 
of mouse and was thinking about retiring to her 
den when she spotted movement at the end of 
the thorn tunnel. Hollytuft and Flippaw, who 
had been out on border patrol, appeared; 
Bristlefrost’s eyes widened in surprise as she 
recognized the cats who followed them into the 
camp.

Tigerstar and Shadowpaw! 
Bristlefrost tensed. Could Tigerstar 
possibly know about the attempt to break 
through the ice in the Moonpool? Was he here 
to yell at Bramblestar? It would be a shame to 
get under Tigerstar’s fur when the attempt 
didn’t even work. . . . 
Lilyheart, the third member of the patrol, 
brought up the rear, and Hollytuft led the way 
across the camp to where Ivypool was trying to 
coax Squirrelflight to eat a thrush. 
Squirrelflight rose to her paws and faced 
Tigerstar where he halted beside the fresh-kill 
pile. Shadowpaw stood beside him, looking 
down at his paws; Bristlefrost could see his 
whiskers twitching nervously. 
“Greetings, Tigerstar.” Squirrelflight’s eyes 
were wary, but she inclined her head coolly. 
“What do you want with ThunderClan?” 
“I’ve come with an important message,” 
Tigerstar replied. “I think it would be best for

me to speak in private with Bramblestar.” 
“I’m sorry.” Squirrelflight’s voice was calm. 
“Bramblestar isn’t available at the moment. 
He’s . . . out hunting. So whatever you want to 
say, you can say in front of all ThunderClan’s 
warriors.” 
For a moment Tigerstar looked taken aback. 
He hesitated; Bristlefrost guessed he was 
weighing the tension in Squirrelflight’s 
expression. 
“Very well,” he meowed at last. “My 
message is a strange one: I know that your 
leader, Bramblestar, is very sick.” 
Bristlefrost felt her belly clench and heard 
gasps of amazement rising from her Clanmates 
around her. 
“How do you know?” Lionblaze demanded. 
The golden tabby tom rose and skirted the 
fresh-kill pile to stand beside Squirrelflight. 
His amber eyes blazed as he glared at Tigerstar. 
“Who told you?”

Tigerstar gave no sign that Lionblaze’s 
aggressive tone had offended him. “My son, 
Shadowpaw,” he began, “who as you know is a 
medicine-cat apprentice, told me, after he 
received a message from StarClan.” 
“No cat has received a message from 
StarClan!” Graystripe put in. 
Tigerstar’s gaze flicked to the elder and 
away again. “My son has. And, more important, 
he knows how to cure Bramblestar.” 
Every cat’s gaze turned to Squirrelflight, 
who stood silent for a long moment, clearly 
stunned. Then she glanced at Flippaw. “Please 
fetch Jayfeather and Alderheart,” she 
requested. 
The whole Clan waited in silence while the 
apprentice scurried across the camp and 
vanished behind the bramble screen at the 
entrance to the medicine cats’ den. Bristlefrost 
felt so confused that she couldn’t move, her 
mind racing and filling with half-formed

questions. She didn’t know whether to hope that 
Shadowpaw really did have the answer to 
Bramblestar’s mysterious illness, or whether 
this was all some kind of ShadowClan trick to 
attack ThunderClan when they were vulnerable. 
Maybe Tigerstar did find out about the 
Moonpool, and this is some complicated 
strategy to get revenge? 
When Bristlefrost felt she couldn’t wait a 
heartbeat longer, Jayfeather and Alderheart 
appeared from their den and padded over to the 
fresh-kill pile with Flippaw following them. 
“What’s all this?” Jayfeather demanded 
harshly. 
Instead of explaining, Squirrelflight turned 
to Shadowpaw. “All right,” she began, “if 
Bramblestar were sick, how would you cure 
him?” 
Shadowpaw looked up at the ThunderClan 
deputy; for a moment Bristlefrost could see he 
was too overwhelmed to speak, until Tigerstar

gave him an encouraging nudge. 
“W-well . . . ,” the apprentice stammered, 
“Bramblestar’s illness is like a—a wildfire. It 
can’t be snuffed out with treatment. It has to be 
allowed to burn out on its own.” 
Squirrelflight’s green eyes narrowed as she 
gazed down at him. “And what does that mean?” 
she asked. 
“It’s an unusual idea—” Tigerstar began, 
then broke off and waved his tail at his son for 
Shadowpaw to continue. 
Shadowpaw gathered himself and started to 
speak again. Bristlefrost felt a twinge of 
admiration for the young cat; it must take 
courage to tell a rival Clan what to do, when he 
was no more than an apprentice, and to stand up 
to that Clan’s suspicious glares while he 
explained. 
“You should take Bramblestar to a cold 
place on the moor,” Shadowpaw told the 
ThunderClan medicine cats, his voice sounding

more confident as he continued. “The colder 
the better, and somewhere where the wind is 
strong. Build him a den in the snow, and have 
him sleep there overnight. The sickness will get 
worse before it gets better, but when 
Bramblestar wakes up he will be strong again, 
and just as healthy as before.” 
A long, disbelieving silence followed 
Shadowpaw’s words. At last Squirrelflight 
shook her head, turning to Tigerstar. “Are you 
serious?” she demanded. “Do you really think I 
would allow any cat to drag my sick mate—if 
he were sick—out onto the moor to freeze to 
death?” 
“Maybe he does,” Jayfeather growled, 
turning a hostile expression on the ShadowClan 
leader. “Shadowpaw, exactly how has 
Puddleshine been training you? Don’t you 
realize that what you’re suggesting could kill 
Bramblestar? That would leave ThunderClan 
weak, when we have problems enough as it is.

And maybe that’s what Tigerstar wants!” he 
finished with a lash of his tail. 
“Nonsense,” Tigerstar responded. He 
closed his eyes briefly and dug his claws into 
the ground; Bristlefrost could see what a 
massive effort it took for him to keep his 
temper in check. “I came here in good faith, to 
share my son’s vision. I didn’t have to go to so 
much trouble.” 
“I’m not sure where Shadowpaw’s visions 
come from,” Jayfeather snapped back at him, 
“but the medicine cats couldn’t even reach our 
ancestors when we made cracks in the frozen 
Moonpool. So I know these instructions aren’t 
coming from StarClan!” 
Tigerstar’s eyes narrowed. “What are you 
talking about?” he asked Jayfeather. “Who made 
cracks in the Moonpool? Why would any cat 
think of doing that to such a special place?” 
A long silence followed the ShadowClan 
leader’s questions. Bristlefrost thought she

could see a look of deep regret in Jayfeather’s 
eyes, and uncomfortable glances from the 
other cats standing around. She knew Jayfeather 
had never meant to give away so much to 
Tigerstar, after the ShadowClan cats hadn’t been 
invited to help. 
Finally Squirrelflight raised her head, as if 
she was bracing herself for an unpleasant task. 
“It was necessary . . . ,” she mewed. “To see if 
we could reach StarClan again. All the Clans 
helped.” 
“ShadowClan didn’t help,” Tigerstar 
retorted, his shoulder fur beginning to bush up 
in anger. “Why were we left out?” 
Every cat stared uncomfortably at 
Shadowpaw, who kept his gaze fixed on his 
paws. Bristlefrost felt sorry for the apprentice, 
her kin, who wasn’t much older than her. He 
even looked a bit like her and her 
littermates . . . she could see Flippaw in the 
shape of his eyes, Thriftpaw in the seriousness

of his gaze. 
What must it feel like, when all the Clans 
think you’re lying? 
But at the same time, Bristlefrost could see 
why the ThunderClan cats were so doubtful 
about him now. How could any cat believe that 
his message about putting Bramblestar out in 
the cold could really be from StarClan? Why is 
Shadowpaw so special? she wondered. And 
why would StarClan seek out a ShadowClan 
medicine cat, and not one from ThunderClan 
or one of the other clans? 
“I understand now,” Tigerstar growled, when 
it was clear that no cat intended to answer his 
questions. “I’m sorry I brought my son here, 
through the cold, for no good reason. If the 
other Clans don’t view ShadowClan as one of 
them, then ShadowClan will seek its own path. 
This is the last wisdom from Shadowpaw that I 
will share with outsiders!” He raked the crowd 
of cats around him with a last hostile glare.

“Come on, Shadowpaw. We’re leaving.” 
Turning, he stormed off across the camp. 
For a moment, Shadowpaw hesitated, as if he 
didn’t want to follow, until Tigerstar glanced 
back over his shoulder and snapped, 
“Shadowpaw!” 
The apprentice dipped his head to 
Squirrelflight and followed his father. 
Before the two ShadowClan cats reached 
the thorn tunnel, Squirrelflight suddenly 
stepped forward; Bristlefrost saw remorse in 
the Clan deputy’s face. “Wait . . . ,” she called 
out to the cats’ retreating tails, her voice weak 
and uncertain. 
Tigerstar checked for an instant, then 
continued without looking back. Both he and 
Shadowpaw disappeared into the tunnel. 
When they were gone, Squirrelflight heaved 
a deep sigh, and turned a glare on Jayfeather 
from narrowed green eyes. Though Jayfeather 
couldn’t see the glare, he certainly seemed to

feel it; he shrugged his shoulders uneasily. “We 
all know what Tigerstar has been like in the 
past,” he mumbled. 
Bristlefrost could feel her pelt tingling 
from the tension in the camp, as if ants were 
crawling through her fur. She couldn’t believe 
that such a short time ago she’d been sharing 
prey with her Clanmates and feeling optimistic. 
“Maybe Shadowpaw’s idea has some merit,” 
Alderheart meowed. His voice was calm, and he 
was clearly trying to smooth things over. 
“What?” Jayfeather spat. “You must have a 
whole nest of bees in your brain if you want to 
do what that delusional little flea-pelt told 
you!” 
“Keep your fur on, Jayfeather,” Alderheart 
told him, resting his tail for a moment on the 
older medicine cat’s shoulder. “That’s not what 
I mean at all. But don’t you remember how I 
once saved Puddleshine from a terrible Twoleg 
infection by feeding him the flesh of

deathberries? At first, it seemed like they 
would kill him, and he got worse before he got 
better—just like Shadowpaw said would be the 
answer to Bramblestar’s illness.” 
His words were met with silence. Every cat 
in the Clan was staring at Alderheart. 
Bristlefrost struggled with a surge of fear. 
Bramblestar will die if Alderheart leaves him 
in the snow. 
The silence dragged out until Alderheart 
lashed his tail in frustration. “We have to do 
something to save my father!” he blurted out. 
“But we don’t have to do this,” Jayfeather 
retorted. “It’s absurd. We may have known 
Tigerstar for a long time, but don’t forget that 
before he became Clan leader, he abandoned 
his Clan and his role as deputy.” 
“He came back,” Squirrelflight pointed out. 
“Okay, he came back,” Jayfeather meowed. 
“And then he caused more problems when we 
were trying to adjust the territories to make a

home for SkyClan. And that’s what worries me: 
Tigerstar seems to be a cat who changes his 
mind and his mood very quickly. We can never 
be sure what Tigerstar’s true motives are— 
except that he thinks of ShadowClan above all 
else.” 
“You think he told Shadowpaw what to say?” 
Ivypool asked. “To attack ThunderClan by 
killing our leader?” 
No cat could be that evil! Bristlefrost 
thought, horrified. 
Jayfeather shook his head. “No, I believe 
Shadowpaw means well. He truly thinks he is 
helping. But in my opinion, none of his visions 
have ever sounded as if they come from 
StarClan.” 
“But when has StarClan ever been 
predictable?” Alderheart demanded, his tone 
growing heated. “Maybe StarClan has changed 
their way of reaching us, and will only 
communicate through Shadowpaw. Maybe, like

so many of StarClan’s actions, the reason will 
only become clear with time. And Bramblestar 
is dying. None of our usual herbs are working! 
With StarClan cutting us off, mustn’t we—now 
more than ever—do all we can to keep him 
alive?” 
Squirrelflight stepped forward to 
Alderheart’s side. Bristlefrost could see 
sorrow in her eyes, and knew she was on the 
brink of making what must be the hardest 
decision of her life. 
“I’m sorry, Alderheart,” she mewed at last. 
“I can’t allow this.” 
For a moment Bristlefrost thought that 
Alderheart would protest. Then he lowered his 
head, saying nothing. Squirrelflight gazed at 
him for a moment more before padding off to 
the warriors’ den. 
“Squirrelflight, you should eat something,” 
Ivypool called after her, but Squirrelflight 
didn’t look back.

An awkward silence fell over the camp, as 
if no cat had any idea what to say. One or two of 
the warriors began to drift away toward their 
den, only to halt as Jayfeather spoke. 
“I have an idea,” he told Alderheart. “If we 
could get some borage, we might be able to 
rouse Bramblestar.” 
Hope and confusion warred in Alderheart’s 
eyes. “Why borage?” he asked. “We use it to 
reduce fever. That’s hardly necessary right 
now.” 
“It might sound odd,” Jayfeather agreed, 
“but Shadowpaw was right about one thing. The 
longer Bramblestar stays in our den, the more 
chance there is of his temperature dropping so 
quickly that he might never recover. But if we 
gave him something to make him colder . . . 
Would that spur him on to get better, the way 
Shadowpaw suggested? The way the 
deathberries seemed to trick Puddleshine into 
getting better.” When Alderheart didn’t reply,

he added, “It’s got to be worth trying, right?” 
Alderheart gave his pelt a shake, as if he 
was rousing himself from deep concentration. 
“It might be,” he agreed. “But all our herb 
stocks are low, and we’re completely out of 
borage. I don’t know where we’ll find any more 
with snow covering the ground.” 
“There’s one place we might get some,” 
Jayfeather told him. “You know that spit of 
ground that juts out into the lake? I know 
borage grows right at the far end, but we usually 
can’t get at it because there’s such a tangle of 
brambles and gorse bushes in the way. In 
normal times it’s not worth the effort, when we 
can get plenty of borage elsewhere. But now 
that the lake is frozen . . .” 
“We might be able to reach it!” Alderheart 
exclaimed, his eyes flaring with hope at last. 
Bristlefrost leaped to her paws. “I’ll lead a 
patrol to go and collect some!” she offered, 
excitement making her paws tingle. “Who’s

coming with me?” 
“I will,” Spotfur responded instantly. 
For a moment annoyance overwhelmed 
Bristlefrost’s excitement. You would, she 
thought sourly. Showing off in front of 
Stemleaf. 
Then Bristlefrost realized that she was 
wrong. Spotfur was a loyal Clan cat, stepping up 
when her Clan and her leader needed her. Even 
though Bristlefrost was still upset about 
Stemleaf, she was impressed by Spotfur’s 
courage. 
“Thank you,” she meowed, dipping her head 
toward the spotted tabby she-cat. 
Poppyfrost, Stemleaf, Cherryfall, and 
Flywhisker all stepped forward to volunteer, 
and Bristlefrost found herself at the head of a 
patrol. 
My first time leading a patrol for my 
Clan! 
“All right,” she meowed, filled with a new

sense of purpose. “Let’s go.”

Chapter 19 
With her patrol following in her paw steps, 
Bristlefrost broke out of the trees and stood at 
the top of the bank leading down to the lake. 
The spit of land where the borage grew curved 
out into the lake like a cat’s tail. Bristlefrost 
could see the dark tangle of thorns that barred 
the way from the shore. At the far end, many 
fox-lengths away, the ground became clearer; 
Bristlefrost could make out a few frozen stalks 
sticking up out of the snow. 
That must be the borage. 
Cherryfall padded up beside her. “We don’t 
know whether the lake is frozen solid,” she 
pointed out. “If we walk out too far, we could 
fall through the ice. Remember what happened 
to that SkyClan apprentice.” 
As if I’m likely to forget it! 
The memory returned to Bristlefrost in

vivid focus, bringing a mixture of emotions 
with it. She had been terrified for Rootpaw, and 
so proud that her rescue of him had impressed 
Stemleaf. She struggled with another ache of 
regret at the knowledge that her courage hadn’t 
mattered at all. Stemleaf had already set his 
heart on another cat as his mate. Bristlefrost 
couldn’t resist a quick glance at Spotfur, 
wondering what it was about her that Stemleaf 
preferred. 
Icy wind blew into Bristlefrost’s face, 
carrying with it even more memories: the 
waves of cold wafting off the ice as she stood 
there reaching out to Rootpaw, and the exposed 
lake water welling up around her forelegs. 
I saved the stupid furball, but I was more 
frightened than I’ve ever been in my life. And 
now I’m thinking about stepping out onto the 
ice again? On purpose? 
“Bramblestar is very sick,” Poppyfrost 
responded to Cherryfall’s warning. “I know it’s

a risk, but it’s worth it, to save him.” 
Spotfur murmured agreement. “We have to 
take the risk, or why are we here? But we have 
to be careful, too. We should go slowly, and 
circle around to find other routes if the ice 
seems thin.” 
Who’s in charge of this patrol, you or me? 
Bristlefrost thought, then forced herself to be 
more generous toward the spotted tabby shecat.
“Good idea,” she meowed. “Follow me, but 
not too close, to spread our weight out.” 
Bristlefrost led the way out onto the ice, 
hugging the side of the spit of land, where the 
ice was thickest. Her patrol was stretched out 
behind her, keeping well separated as she had 
ordered. 
At first they made good progress. Though 
Bristlefrost cringed as the ice made her pads 
ache, then grow numb, it felt solid under her 
paws. But before long the gorse and brambles

grew thicker, overhanging the lake so that the 
cats had to move farther away from the shore. 
Bristlefrost could feel the ice bouncing gently 
under her weight. After a few more paw steps, 
she thought she heard an ominous creaking; she 
raised her tail to signal the others to halt. 
“Maybe we should go back,” Flywhisker 
called out to her. “We could try around the 
other side. It might be safer there.” 
Bristlefrost twitched her tail-tip back and 
forth in frustration. Because of the way the spit 
of land curved around, she could see the clearer 
area with the stalks of borage just a few taillengths 
ahead. Only a narrow stretch of ice 
separated the patrol from the life-giving herb. 
What if that stalk of borage could save 
Bramblestar? Surely it would be worth the 
risk then! 
“We’re so close,” she meowed. “Maybe if 
one cat went alone, very fast, so their paws 
hardly touched the ice . . .”

“No!” Spotfur protested. “It’s too 
dangerous. If one cat fell in, how would the 
others even get them out?” 
“You’re right, we should turn back.” 
Poppyfrost shuddered. “I remember when 
Flametail fell through the ice. No cat should 
have to go through that.” 
Bristlefrost remembered hearing that story 
from the elders when she was a kit. Flametail 
had been a ShadowClan medicine-cat 
apprentice and had drowned in the lake when 
the ice gave way during another hard leaf-bare. 
She shivered at the thought of something so 
terrible happening again. 
But the ice must be thicker now. . . . Every 
cat says there’s never been a leaf-bare as bad 
as this. 
Bristlefrost gazed across the ice at the 
borage stems. They were so close, and yet they 
might as well have been countless fox-lengths 
away.

Without giving herself time to think, she 
leaped forward, sprinting across the ice so fast 
that her paws only skimmed the surface. She 
held her breath, determined to keep her nerve, 
and a few heartbeats later she sprang off the ice 
and across a scatter of rocks to where the 
borage grew. 
“I made it!” she yowled triumphantly, 
glancing back at her Clanmates, who were 
staring at her, strung out behind her along the 
shore. 
Bristlefrost nipped off a few stems of 
borage with her teeth and made them into a 
bundle so that she could carry them back. But 
as soon as she launched herself back onto the 
ice, she heard a sharp crack, and the ice where 
she had landed began to tilt. Dark water, 
painfully cold, welled up over Bristlefrost’s 
legs as she scrabbled vainly at the slick surface 
in an attempt to keep her balance. Letting out a 
terrified screech, she plunged deep into the icy

lake. 
I’ve done it now . . . I’m going to die . . . , 
Bristlefrost thought as the water closed over 
her head. She didn’t expect that her Clanmates 
would be able to save her. They’d be risking 
their own lives. . . . When she had saved 
Rootpaw, he had been close to shore, and 
rescuing him had been easy. And he had been an 
apprentice. . . . 
I’m a warrior, old enough to know better. 
Bristlefrost thrashed her paws helplessly, 
but the cold was sapping her strength. She had 
lost her sense of direction; she didn’t know 
where the surface was. Then something hard 
struck her on the shoulder. Instinctively she 
grabbed at it and sank her claws into wood. A 
moment later her head broke the surface, and 
she saw Spotfur on the more solid ice nearby, 
hauling her to safety at the end of a long 
branch. 
Scrambling up onto the ice, Bristlefrost

collapsed at Spotfur’s paws, coughed up a 
mouthful of water and ice, and looked up at her 
Clanmate. “Thank you!” she gasped. “I thought I 
was dead for sure.” 
She noticed that Spotfur’s fur was 
disheveled and she had a tiny trickle of blood 
over one eye. Bristlefrost realized that she 
must have plunged into the gorse and brambles 
to get the branch, and then ventured out onto 
the same treacherous ice that had just given 
way under her own paws. 
“We’d better get you to a medicine cat right 
away,” Spotfur meowed. “You must be 
freezing.” 
Bristlefrost shook the ice crystals out of 
her pelt, beginning to shiver as she recovered 
enough to feel the cold. “I’m so sorry,” she 
mewed, as the rest of her patrol gathered 
around, concern in their eyes. “It was a stupid 
thing to do. I put you all in danger—especially 
you, Spotfur. You were so brave.”

And now I can understand what Stemleaf 
sees in you, she added to herself. You’re a 
brave cat, and a loyal Clanmate. 
“I’ll tell Squirrelflight it was all my fault,” 
Bristlefrost promised. “I won’t let her blame 
any of you that we didn’t get the borage.” 
“There’s nothing to apologize for,” Spotfur 
assured her. “We’re all worried about 
Bramblestar, and that puts us all a little on edge. 
Besides, there’s no need to worry Squirrelflight 
about any of this. You did get what you came 
for!”
For the first time, Bristlefrost realized that 
a few stalks of borage were lying just in front 
of her, at her paws, where she had coughed up 
the ice and water she had swallowed. Her eyes 
widened and laughter bubbled up inside her. 
“I got it after all!” she exclaimed. 
Stemleaf padded up to her and rubbed his 
cheek against hers. “I should have known you 
could do it,” he told her. “You can do anything!”

Bristlefrost staggered to her paws, 
embarrassed by Stemleaf’s praise, and yet 
happy too. She carefully collected the stalks of 
borage and waved her tail to gather the patrol 
together. 
I can’t do everything, she thought as she 
led the way back to camp. But at least I did 
something. 
Her paws numb from patrolling the border, 
Bristlefrost limped across the camp toward the 
medicine cats’ den. She was chilled through and 
exhausted, and she wanted nothing more than to 
curl up in her nest for a well-deserved nap, but 
she knew she wouldn’t be able to rest until she 
found out whether Bramblestar was responding 
to the borage treatment. 
When she had returned to camp the 
previous day, carrying the few precious stems, 
Alderheart had chewed them up and trickled the 
pulp and juices between Bramblestar’s jaws,

while Jayfeather massaged the Clan leader’s 
throat to encourage the Clan leader to swallow. 
“Now there’s nothing to do but wait,” 
Jayfeather had mewed grimly. 
Reaching the den, Bristlefrost poked her 
head around the bramble screen. In the dim 
light she could barely make out Bramblestar’s 
dark tabby shape, half buried in the moss and 
bracken of his nest. Alderheart sat beside him, 
close to his head, and as Bristlefrost watched, 
he reached out and laid one paw on his father’s 
neck. His eyes were troubled, and he let out a 
faint sigh. 
Jayfeather appeared from the back of the 
den. “Any change?” he asked. 
Alderheart shook his head. “No . . . he 
might even be growing weaker.” 
Bristlefrost felt her belly cramp with 
apprehension. This isn’t supposed to happen! 
Why isn’t the borage working? 
“It wasn’t much of a chance,” Jayfeather

murmured, almost as if he were answering 
Bristlefrost’s unspoken question. “And now . . . 
there’s nothing more that we can do.” 
“We can’t give up!” Alderheart’s voice was 
anguished. “There must be a way to save him. 
We have to talk to Shadowpaw again.” 
Jayfeather let out a hiss of fury. “I’ve told 
you before, we are not listening to that useless 
ShadowClan lump of fur! Tigerstar is using him 
to—” He broke off suddenly and swung around 
to face Bristlefrost. “What are you doing 
here?” he demanded. “Eavesdropping?” 
How did he know I was here, unless he 
has eyes in his tail? Bristlefrost wondered, 
until she remembered that though Jayfeather 
was blind, his other senses were extraordinarily 
sharp; he would easily have picked out her 
scent among all the others in the den. 
“I only wanted—” she began. 
Alderheart interrupted her, his voice 
suddenly filled with authority. “This isn’t our

decision to make,” he told Jayfeather. 
“Bristlefrost, fetch Squirrelflight.” 
Bristlefrost drew back from the den and 
pelted across the camp toward the tumbled 
rocks that led up to the Highledge. Before 
Bristlefrost had climbed halfway up, 
Squirrelflight appeared at the entrance. 
“What is it?” she asked, her voice tight with 
strain. 
“Alderheart wants you,” Bristlefrost 
gasped, her paws skidding as she turned back, 
so she barely saved herself from falling. 
She heard a choking sound from 
Squirrelflight before the Clan deputy bounded 
down the rocks, overtaking Bristlefrost as she 
raced back toward the medicine cats’ den. 
When Bristlefrost slipped, panting, back 
into the den, she found the two medicine cats 
where she had left them beside the Clan leader. 
Squirrelflight had joined them, and stood 
gazing down at Bramblestar, her green eyes

filled with pain. 
“So the borage didn’t work,” she mewed; 
Bristlefrost could tell how much effort she was 
making to keep her voice steady. 
“No,” Alderheart responded. “There’s only 
one way to save Bramblestar now.” 
Squirrelflight’s eyes narrowed as she 
glanced at him. “Shadowpaw’s treatment?” 
Alderheart nodded silently. 
“You’re flea-brained if you even consider 
that,” Jayfeather snapped, working his claws 
into the moss and bracken in the floor of the 
den.
“Squirrelflight.” Alderheart’s voice still 
held that ring of authority, as if he were a much 
older and more experienced cat. “Bramblestar 
is dying. And we have no idea what will happen 
when he loses a life, seeing that no cat can 
make contact with StarClan—except, maybe, 
Shadowpaw. Trying his treatment would at least 
give Bramblestar one last chance.”

Jayfeather let out a huff of annoyance and 
turned away. “Don’t expect me to go along with 
this,” he snarled. 
Alderheart met Squirrelflight’s gaze 
steadily. “It’s your decision,” he told her. “What 
do you want to do?”

Chapter 20 
“Let all cats old enough to catch their own 
prey join here beneath the Pinebranch for a 
Clan meeting!” 
Shadowpaw poked his head out of the 
medicine cats’ den to see his father sitting on 
the pine branch above his den, from which he 
always addressed the Clan. His paws were 
tucked underneath him, and his tail dangled. His 
father’s expression was grave. 
Worry prickled beneath Shadowpaw’s pelt. 
“Now what’s happening?” he wondered aloud. I 
just hope I’m not at the center of it, for 
once. . . . 
“Listen and you might find out,” 
Puddleshine told him, giving him a shove from 
behind. “But I’d bet a moon of dawn patrols it’s 
something to do with your visit to 
ThunderClan.”

Great. Shadowpaw thought that his mentor 
must be right. He cringed when he thought of 
how Squirrelflight had denied that Bramblestar 
was sick, and how no cat had believed him when 
he’d told them what to do to save their leader. 
They thought I was trying to kill him! They 
really thought I could be that . . . evil! 
He padded out of the den with Puddleshine 
a paw step behind him and found a spot to sit 
near Lightleap and Pouncestep. Cloverfoot and 
Tawnypelt turned away from the fresh-kill pile 
and joined Dovewing near the bottom of the 
tree. Cloverfoot looked apprehensive; 
Shadowpaw guessed that Tigerstar had already 
confided in his deputy what he was going to say. 
Oakfur emerged slowly from the elders’ 
den and plopped down just outside it, raising 
one hind leg to give himself a vigorous scratch 
behind his ear. Cinnamontail and Berryheart 
appeared from the warriors’ den with more of 
their Clanmates behind them, to form a ragged

circle beneath the Pinebranch where Tigerstar 
was waiting. 
The Clan leader let his amber gaze travel 
around his Clan before he rose to his paws and 
spoke. “Cats of ShadowClan, once again we 
have been the victim of a grave deception! A 
fox-hearted betrayal!” He paused. Murmurs of 
shock and disgust wormed their way through 
the crowd, but Shadowpaw felt only surprise. 
Tigerstar lifted his head. “Therefore,” he 
went on, “I’ve decided that my only choice is to 
close our borders. So we’ll be doubling our 
patrols, and renewing our scent markers twice 
as often. And I’m sure I don’t need to tell you 
what to do with any cat who dares set paw on 
our territory. From now on—” 
“Just a moment,” Tawnypelt interrupted, her 
ears flicking up indignantly. “What happened? 
You can’t do this without telling us why. That 
would be mouse-brained.” 
Tigerstar narrowed his eyes as he gazed

down at the tortoiseshell she-cat. Shadowpaw 
winced at the way she was addressing her Clan 
leader, then reflected that as Tawnypelt had 
once been deputy, she was used to expressing 
her opinion. Not to mention that she was the 
leader’s mother. And a pretty outspoken cat. 
Before Tigerstar could respond, Oakfur 
paused in his scratching. “Things didn’t exactly 
go well when WindClan and RiverClan decided 
to close their borders recently,” he pointed out. 
“They just helped Darktail and his Kin to grow 
more powerful.” 
“That’s right!” Snowbird agreed. “We need 
to know more before we do this.” 
A chorus of yowls broke out, as more cats 
demanded that Tigerstar explain himself. 
Finally the Clan leader had to raise his tail for 
silence. 
“I’ve just learned that the other Clans have 
banded together to defile the Moonpool by 
trying to break the ice,” he explained. “Their

scheme failed, which is no great surprise . . . 
but, needless to say, I am disgusted by this 
snubbing of our Clan. The other Clans have 
tried to cut us off from the Moonpool because 
they don’t trust Shadowpaw,” he went on. “They 
don’t trust that a ShadowClan cat could have 
such a connection with StarClan. But they’re 
wrong about that! I know it, and soon the other 
Clans will know it, too. Shadowpaw has special 
powers. . . .” 
Shadowpaw hunched his shoulders in 
embarrassment as his father continued to 
proclaim how sensitive he was, how many 
visions he had had, and how valuable his link to 
StarClan would prove for his Clan. 
I’m not like that at all. I’m just a 
medicine-cat apprentice, and I don’t know 
what’s going on, any more than any cat! 
Worse, he worried that his Clanmates didn’t 
agree with their leader. He caught the doubtful 
glances they were casting at him. Even

Puddleshine was looking at him thoughtfully. 
His mentor had defended him before, but was 
he regretting that now? 
Strikestone cleared his throat to speak first. 
“Shadowpaw is unusual,” he began. Tigerstar 
shifted and cast an angry glare at the white tom. 
But Strikestone lifted a paw, indicating he 
wasn’t done. “But he’s ours—and in my mind, 
there’s no doubt that a ShadowClan cat could be 
singled out by StarClan.” 
To Shadowpaw’s surprise, this time 
murmurs of agreement hummed through the 
crowd. Yarrowleaf purred, looking at him with 
fond eyes. “Shadowpaw is good,” she agreed. 
“He and my kits grew up together. Maybe it’s 
unusual for StarClan to communicate with only 
one cat, but why shouldn’t it be Shadowpaw?” 
This time cats were nodding, meowing their 
agreement. Other cats spoke up in support, but 
Shadowpaw’s mind wandered. The certainty in 
their voices only made him feel more unsure.

He knew they loved ShadowClan . . . but did that 
make him right? The visions he had received 
were so clear, just as if he were talking to a 
living cat. Shadowpaw knew that StarClan didn’t 
usually communicate like that. But what other 
way was there to explain it? 
If I’m not being given these visions to 
save the Clans, Shadowpaw wondered, then 
why am I having them? He remembered 
Spiresight, whom he had met when he was a kit 
living inside the big Twoleg den, and 
remembered too how Spiresight had been 
treated by the other cats who lived there. 
Dovewing had said that Spiresight was a 
medicine cat in a group that didn’t understand 
medicine cats. The cats who lived at the Twoleg 
den saw his visions as crazy and believed there 
was something wrong with him. 
Even if my Clan believes me . . . it’s not a 
long distance from “medicine cat” to “crazy 
furball,” Shadowpaw reflected. What if I am

imagining it? Spiresight was right sometimes, 
but he talked a lot of nonsense, too. . . . 
“Exactly!” Tigerstar’s loud, assertive voice 
jerked Shadowpaw out of his reflections. “I’m 
glad we all agree. Cloverfoot, please set the 
new border-patrol schedules and send out 
hunting patrols.” 
The Clan leader leaped down from the 
branch and disappeared into his den, leaving his 
deputy to carry out his orders. Meanwhile, 
most of the warriors drew together in little 
groups, talking with their heads together and 
glancing over their shoulders at Shadowpaw. 
As he turned away from them, wanting to be 
alone, Shadowpaw caught Puddleshine’s eye. 
His mentor looked curious but didn’t call to 
him. He could stand to be rid of me for a 
while, Shadowpaw mused. Let him get some 
real medicine-cat work done, without 
worrying about me, and all the trouble I’m 
causing.

Leaving the camp behind him, Shadowpaw 
headed out into the forest. Clouds lay low over 
the tops of the pine trees, and the light 
underneath them was dim, though it was not 
long past sunhigh. The surface of the snow 
glimmered eerily in the dusk, unbroken by any 
traces of prey. Shadowpaw’s paws and legs grew 
numb with cold as he broke through the crusty 
surface into the powdery snow beneath. 
Eventually he came to a tall rock where 
wind had scoured most of the snow away, and 
he leaped to the top of it to get away from the 
freezing flakes for a while. From here 
Shadowpaw could just make out the lake, and 
parts of the other territories in the distance. 
“I don’t want to hurt any of you,” he 
murmured. “Even I don’t know if my visions are 
real. I wish I did. . . .” 
As Shadowpaw sat there, tucking in his 
paws and his tail to make himself as small as he 
could against the cold, the view in front of him

began to change. A red stain spread over the icy 
blue of the lake, the color intensifying until the 
surface was blazing with scarlet fire. 
Shadowpaw felt himself being lifted up, as if he 
were a bird, passing beyond the trees until he 
could look down on the whole of the lake and 
the territories around it. 
The fire raged more fiercely, spreading out 
into long lines that followed the boundaries of 
the Clans, until each Clan was separated from 
the others by leaping walls of flame. Then the 
fire began to creep inward, greedily devouring 
the trees and undergrowth as it encroached on 
the camps. 
“No . . . ,” Shadowpaw whispered, his eyes 
wide with horror. 
There was no way for the cats to escape. 
Shadowpaw couldn’t see them, but he could 
hear their wails and screeches of terror. He 
could smell the smoke and hear the crackle of 
the flames as they roared around the rock

where he crouched, trembling with fear. His 
head swam, and darkness swirled in front of his 
eyes. He coughed as ash caught in his throat 
and filled his lungs, gasping for breath as his 
senses spiraled away. 
Before Shadowpaw could lose 
consciousness, the vision ended as quickly as it 
had come. Shadowpaw took in huge gulps of 
cold, clean air, gazing stunned at the forest, 
which was peaceful, snow-covered, unharmed. 
The lake was still frozen; even the smell of 
smoke had vanished. 
The fire is coming, and the flames will 
scatter the Clans! he realized. I have to tell 
them! 
“Oh, it definitely means something.” 
Tigerstar’s tones were grave. “And that 
‘something’ is not good.” 
Shadowpaw was sitting with his father just 
outside the Clan leader’s den. He had raced

back to camp as soon as he had recovered from 
his vision, and at once Tigerstar had called his 
senior warriors around him: Cloverfoot, 
Tawnypelt, and Dovewing, along with 
Shadowpaw’s mentor, Puddleshine. 
“I’m most concerned about the Clans being 
scattered,” Puddleshine meowed. “The fire 
might not mean real fire; StarClan often uses 
symbols when they send messages. But it 
sounds like they’re warning us that the Clans 
will be torn apart and destroyed by . . . maybe 
some outside force.” 
Shadowpaw noticed that Tigerstar was 
staring hard at Puddleshine as the medicine cat 
was speaking. Puddleshine noticed it, too. 
“What?” he asked. 
“You just said that StarClan uses symbols,” 
Tigerstar pointed out. “So do you finally 
believe that Shadowpaw is getting these 
messages from StarClan?” 
Puddleshine frowned painfully, then

nodded. “I’m not sure there’s any other 
explanation,” he admitted. “Shadowpaw’s 
visions have always been . . . unusual. But this 
one seems like a clear message.” 
Every hair on Shadowpaw’s pelt tingled with 
satisfaction. At last! 
“So we have to warn the other Clans,” 
Dovewing meowed. 
“I’ve half a mind to keep the information to 
myself,” Tigerstar growled, his gaze fixed 
straight ahead to where the forest trees 
crowded close. “The other Clans have made it 
clear they don’t want listen to us anyway.” 
“But—” Dovewing tried to interrupt, but 
Tigerstar ignored her. 
“Don’t forget,” he continued, “the other 
Clans have so little trust in us, they tried to 
break through to StarClan without us. They 
attacked the ice on the Moonpool! Maybe the 
reason Shadowpaw has been able to talk to 
StarClan is that we’re the only Clan StarClan

isn’t angry with.” 
Cloverfoot blinked thoughtfully. “This 
latest vision showed that the fire was dangerous 
to all the Clans,” she mewed. “That surely 
means we’ll all suffer if we’re torn apart— 
including ShadowClan.” 
“Yes,” Tawnypelt agreed. “Hasn’t StarClan 
told us before? The Clans are strongest when 
we stand together. Our experience with Darktail 
taught us that.” 
Tigerstar still looked undecided, flexing his 
claws and twitching his tail-tip irritably. “I still 
don’t see why we have to be responsible for 
saving the other Clans, after the way they’ve 
treated us,” he huffed. 
Dovewing gazed at Tigerstar with clear 
green eyes. “Because we’re warriors,” she 
responded. “We’re loyal to ShadowClan, but we 
still have a code. We have honor.” 
Tigerstar let out a long sigh, then nodded 
reluctantly. “What do you think we should do?”

he asked his deputy. 
“If I were you, I wouldn’t worry about 
closing our borders. Instead I would call an 
emergency Gathering,” Cloverfoot replied. 
“The other leaders need to know this, and we all 
need to discuss what to do about this latest 
vision.” She turned to Shadowpaw, warmth in 
her gaze. “This message is so clear, even the 
most stubborn Clans won’t be able to ignore it 
—whether it comes from ShadowClan or not.” 
Tigerstar rose to his paws, looking decisive 
once more. “Good. We’ll do it. Cloverfoot, 
please send out messengers to the other 
Clans.” 
It felt strange to Shadowpaw to be 
approaching the Gathering island in the dark. 
There was no full moon, and in any case the 
cloud cover was so thick that very little light 
could penetrate it. Shadowpaw could hardly see 
his own paws in front of him as he made the

crossing on the tree-bridge. 
His belly fluttered nervously as he padded 
over to join the other medicine cats in the 
clearing, but at least he had Puddleshine by his 
side, and this time he knew his mentor would 
support him. He’d already met with the other 
medicine cats, just prior to this meeting, to 
explain Shadowpaw’s vision and what he 
thought it meant. All the others, even 
Jayfeather, greeted him when he sat beside 
them, and their wide eyes, the way they dipped 
their heads respectfully to him, suggested to 
Shadowpaw that at least they were willing to 
listen. 
But the warriors aren’t going to like the 
content of my message, he realized with a jolt 
of apprehension. What if they turn even more 
hostile? 
The Clan leaders took their places in the 
Great Oak. They were barely visible among the 
branches, except for the gleam of their eyes as

they looked down at the assembled cats. 
Shadowpaw noticed at once that there was no 
sign of Bramblestar; Squirrelflight leaped into 
the tree to join the leaders of the other Clans. 
“Bramblestar is feeling unwell,” she 
explained. Shadowpaw caught a hint of 
awkwardness in her voice. Bramblestar’s 
illness is more than “feeling unwell”! “I will 
be representing ThunderClan tonight,” 
Squirrelflight finished. 
As soon as every cat was settled, Tigerstar 
rose to his paws. “I have called this emergency 
Gathering,” he began, “because Shadowpaw has 
had another vision from StarClan. Shadowpaw, 
please tell every cat what it was you saw.” 
Shadowpaw’s legs felt wobbly as he stood 
up to address the Clans. He was aware of some 
muttering after Tigerstar’s announcement. 
“You mean we’ve all been dragged out here 
in the pitch dark to listen to an apprentice?” 
Berrynose of ThunderClan demanded.

Shadowpaw did his best to ignore the 
criticism. Catching a glimpse of Rootpaw, 
sitting erect with his gaze firmly fixed on him, 
he felt heartened knowing that at least one cat 
wanted to hear what he had to tell. He made his 
voice ring out clear and steady as he began to 
speak. 
“I was sitting on a rock in the forest. . . .” 
Shadowpaw described how the lake had turned 
red with fire, and how the fire had spread, 
separating each Clan from the others and 
devouring the forest, the camps, and the cats 
themselves. “I know it was a warning that the 
Clans might be destroyed,” he finished. “We 
have to do something about it.” 
Shadowpaw was encouraged by the 
murmurs of agreement that came from some of 
the other medicine cats, but the feeling died 
almost immediately when Harestar spoke. 
“I still don’t understand why StarClan would 
only communicate through an apprentice. Why

him, and not a real medicine cat?” 
Shadowpaw’s pelt grew hot with anger, but 
he didn’t dare argue with the WindClan leader. 
To his surprise, it was Jayfeather who 
responded, his tone edged with sarcasm. “An 
apprentice is a real medicine cat, thank you 
very much. And it’s not for us to tell StarClan 
where to send their messages.” 
“That doesn’t help us much, though,” 
Leafstar commented. “Even if this is a genuine 
message, it doesn’t tell us what we should do 
about it. If we’re not careful, we could be 
bringing on the destruction, not preventing it.” 
“That’s true,” Mistystar responded, her pale 
blue-gray pelt glimmering among the branches 
of the Great Oak. “But this vision makes sense 
to me. StarClan warned us after we got rid of 
Darktail that it was important for all five Clans 
to stay together.” 
Squirrelflight moved to the end of her 
branch so that she could look down at

Shadowpaw. He gazed up at her, nervous but 
managing to meet her green gaze. 
“Did StarClan say anything?” she asked. 
Shadowpaw shook his head. “No, not a 
word.” 
“And the fire came from the lake? Not from 
any one of the Clans?” 
Not from ShadowClan, Shadowpaw wanted 
to reply, guessing what Squirrelflight was 
getting at. “From the very center of the lake,” 
he mewed aloud. “And the flames seemed to 
reach every Clan at the same time.” 
“I see . . .” Squirrelflight let her voice die 
away, and when she spoke again, it was with new 
decision. “Bramblestar supported you at the 
last Gathering,” she told Shadowpaw. “I confess 
I’m not entirely convinced that you’ve had a 
true vision, but for the time being I’ll take you 
seriously, for Bramblestar’s sake.” 
“We all believe in Shadowpaw’s vision.” 
Willowshine rose to her paws and spoke for her

fellow medicine cats. “And we think that it 
couldn’t be more important. Whether the fire is 
real or symbolic, it could destroy all our 
Clans.” 
“I won’t argue with that,” Jayfeather added. 
“But all the same, I think there’s something . . . 
something not quite right about this vision. Oh, 
I don’t think you’re lying or making it up, 
Shadowpaw. I just think we have to go forward 
very carefully.” 
“Right or not, it’s all we have to go on,” 
Alderheart reminded his Clanmate, letting his 
tail rest for a moment on Shadowpaw’s 
shoulders. “The rest of us have tried, and failed, 
to make contact with StarClan for a couple of 
moons now. Shadowpaw’s vision is the only 
direction we have.” 
Shadowpaw felt that most cats were moving 
toward accepting what he had told them. But 
then Tree rose to his paws from where he was 
sitting with a few of the other SkyClan cats.

“Yes, that’s all very well,” the yellow tom 
meowed. “But what exactly does it mean to 
believe Shadowpaw? What are we supposed to 
do?”
“And is this vision connected to what 
Shadowpaw told us last time?” Harestar asked. 
“About the darkness in the Clans?” 
Shadowpaw looked up at his father, 
remembering the other part of his vision, about 
the codebreakers, and the shock he had felt 
when his vision showed him his mother, 
Dovewing. But Tigerstar stared straight ahead, 
not meeting Shadowpaw’s gaze. Shadowpaw 
tried not to let his expression give anything 
away. He decided to say nothing; he sensed that 
the other Clans were still a little hostile to 
ShadowClan and its leader. 
“There is something more I must say,” 
Squirrelflight announced, still keeping her 
position at the end of the branch. She hesitated, 
taking a deep breath, as if she was making a

momentous decision. “I have a confession to 
make. I lied to the Gathering.” 
Gasps of shock and disbelief came from 
the cats in the clearing. I knew it! Shadowpaw 
thought. 
“For that, I ask your forgiveness,” 
Squirrelflight went on. “The truth is that 
Bramblestar is sick—very sick. Our medicine 
cats have tried everything, all the usual herbs 
and treatments, and they have been unable to 
make him better. He is close to death, and 
without StarClan he may not be able to return 
to take up his next life, as a Clan leader 
should.” 
Her words were greeted with a heavy 
silence among the Clans. 
Shadowpaw could feel Squirrelflight’s gaze 
fixed on him as she continued. “Shadowpaw had 
an idea for a very unusual treatment. StarClan 
told him that it would make Bramblestar worse 
before he got better, but it would save him.”

“And you want to go ahead with this?” 
Jayfeather asked. “Squirrelflight, are you sure?” 
The ThunderClan deputy nodded resolutely. 
“It’s Bramblestar’s only hope,” she meowed. 
“Whatever Shadowpaw’s connection with 
StarClan may be, none of the rest of us can 
reach them. And that means we can’t be sure 
what happens to a leader when he loses a life. I 
know the chance that Shadowpaw’s treatment 
will save Bramblestar is a slim one, but we’ve 
tried everything else. A slim chance is still a 
chance—and it may be the only one 
Bramblestar has.” 
“Are you sure you’ve tried everything?” 
Mothwing asked. “I’d be happy to come and 
look at Bramblestar, if you want me to.” 
“So would I,” Frecklewish offered, and the 
other medicine cats added their agreement. 
Shadowpaw narrowed his eyes as he 
glanced at his fellow medicine cats. It sounds 
like they still don’t trust me, he thought.

“Squirrelflight said everything, and she 
meant it,” Alderheart retorted. “I’d be delighted 
if we could find another way, but there isn’t 
one.” 
“And what happens if the treatment kills 
Bramblestar?” Reedwhisker asked, his voice 
filled with anxiety. 
Squirrelflight heaved a long sigh. “I don’t 
know,” she admitted. “But without it, 
Bramblestar is going to die. We can’t make 
things any worse if we try. Shadowpaw, will you 
come to ThunderClan?” 
“Of course I will,” Shadowpaw replied, then 
added instantly, “if Tigerstar and Puddleshine 
give permission.” 
“You have mine,” Puddleshine mewed, 
while Tigerstar announced, “It’s what I’ve 
wanted all along.” 
“And if he recovers,” Harestar put in, “then 
we can decide what is meant by this vision of 
fire, and by the ‘darkness in the Clans’

Shadowpaw told us about before. And more 
important, how we can drive the darkness out.” 
No cat added any objections, so Tigerstar 
announced that the Gathering was over. As the 
cats began to disperse, Squirrelflight leaped 
down from the Great Oak and padded up to 
Shadowpaw. 
“Will you come with me now?” she asked. 
“Bramblestar may not have very much time. I’ll 
get warriors to help move him up onto the 
moor, wherever you like. We’ll do whatever 
you tell us.” 
“We’re on our way.” It was Tigerstar who 
spoke, appearing suddenly at Squirrelflight’s 
shoulder. “I’ll be joining you.” Squirrelflight 
glanced at him as if she was about to object, but 
the ShadowClan leader gave her no chance to 
speak. “I’m bringing Puddleshine and 
Dovewing, too,” he told her. “No cat knows 
exactly what will happen, and I must consider 
my own Clan’s safety.”

A shiver passed through Shadowpaw as he 
realized what his father meant. Even he was 
afraid that the treatment wouldn’t save 
Bramblestar, and that if Shadowpaw failed, he 
might be in danger from angry ThunderClan 
warriors. 
Shadowpaw swallowed hard as he followed 
Squirrelflight toward the tree-bridge. StarClan, 
guide my paws, he prayed.

Chapter 21 
Shadowpaw smoothed down the ThunderClan 
leader’s fur and tucked his paws beneath him. 
The walls of the den that he had carved out in 
the snow rose a tail-length above Bramblestar’s 
inert body. Following his vision, he had led the 
ThunderClan warriors to an exposed place on 
the moor, close to the WindClan border. Now, 
as he looked down at the sick leader, a shudder 
passed through him that had nothing to do with 
the biting cold: it was pure panic. 
He looks so close to death. How can he 
survive this? 
Shadowpaw hadn’t finished with his 
medicine-cat training, but he knew this was a 
terrible thing to do to any cat, let alone one as 
sick as Bramblestar. 
But StarClan said . . . 
As he stepped back, leaving the

ThunderClan leader inside the den, Shadowpaw 
saw Alderheart standing nearby, looking tense 
and uncomfortable. Jayfeather was beside him, 
even more unhappy than usual, his face set in 
the most sour grimace Shadowpaw had ever 
seen. Squirrelflight had insisted on the 
ThunderClan medicine cats being present for 
this attempt to cure Bramblestar. She herself 
had stayed behind in camp to take up her duties 
as temporary Clan leader, saying that if there 
was no news by dawn she would come to see 
for herself. Shadowpaw had guessed that part of 
her was relieved not to have to witness her 
mate’s ordeal. 
Once he was sure that Bramblestar was 
settled, Shadowpaw left the snow den and went 
to sit beside his mother. Dovewing draped her 
tail protectively over his shoulders. Shadowpaw 
could see the worry in her eyes; it hadn’t been 
long since she had been a ThunderClan cat, and

Bramblestar her leader. 
Then Shadowpaw remembered his mother’s 
face in the vision he had received of the 
codebreakers. She and Tigerstar had broken the 
warrior code by becoming mates. Dovewing 
had abandoned her Clan. 
Will StarClan ever forgive her? 
Moonhigh came and went, and Bramblestar 
only seemed to be getting worse. His chest 
barely moved with each shallow breath. 
Alderheart, who was sitting beside him in the 
snow den, was growing more panicked with 
every moment that passed. Shadowpaw wished 
that he could reassure the ThunderClan 
medicine cat, but fear was growing inside him, 
too: the fear that he had been terribly wrong, 
and that his treatment was only hastening 
Bramblestar’s death. 
“He’s too cold!” Alderheart cried out. “Isn’t 
there anything we can do to warm him?”

“No,” Shadowpaw responded. “The cold is 
supposed to cure him, letting the sickness work 
its way out.” He hoped that he sounded more 
confident than he felt. 
Glancing around at the other cats, 
Shadowpaw could see his own doubt and 
anxiety reflected in every face. Even 
Puddleshine was looking uncomfortable. 
“We took an oath as medicine cats,” 
Jayfeather growled. “How can we sit here and 
watch a cat die? Knowing we’re making him 
worse?” 
“But we knew what would happen here,” 
Puddleshine replied; Shadowpaw could tell 
what an effort his words were costing him. “It’s 
just like when Alderheart cured my infection 
using deathberries. Bramblestar will get worse 
before he gets better—isn’t that what the vision 
said?” 
Shadowpaw nodded firmly. “Yes, it did.” 
“Then we must trust this young cat, as we

all agreed,” Puddleshine meowed. “As 
Squirrelflight—your own deputy, Jayfeather— 
agreed.” 
Jayfeather’s only response was a scowl, but 
he made no move toward the den where the 
ThunderClan leader lay dying. 
Shadowpaw closed his eyes, willing 
StarClan to send him more: another vision, 
another detail, anything to help convince him 
that this was right. I’m supposed to help cats 
avoid death, he thought. But this time, am I 
chasing a cat toward his death? 
Behind his closed eyelids he saw a huge 
star exploding over the lake, splintering into 
countless glittering shards, which hung in the 
sky for a heartbeat and then faded into 
darkness. There is a darkness in the Clans, he 
repeated to himself. 
Shadowpaw started as he felt some cat 
jostling him in his side. He opened his eyes to 
see Puddleshine staring at him. “Are you

asleep?” his mentor asked. 
Blinking, Shadowpaw realized that the 
moon was lower in the sky than when he had 
last seen it. I was asleep—and that must have 
been a dream. 
Jumping up, Shadowpaw padded into the 
snow den to check on Bramblestar. When he 
stretched out a paw and laid it gently on his 
chest, he felt that the ThunderClan leader was 
as cold as before. 
Then an even deeper cold spread beneath 
Shadowpaw’s pelt and invaded his whole body. 
Bramblestar isn’t breathing! 
Shadowpaw let out a gasp. Forcing back 
panic, he rested his paw on Bramblestar’s 
muzzle, then thumped his paws down on his 
chest, as if he might startle him back to life. 
But Bramblestar never stirred. Shadowpaw felt 
as though all the air had been sucked out of the 
tiny den, and an agonizing pain pierced his 
chest, as if claws were trying to rip him apart

from the inside. 
I killed him—I killed Bramblestar! 
Forcing his legs to move, Shadowpaw 
backed out of the den and turned around. I 
never thought I would kill him—I never 
thought he would die! StarClan didn’t warn 
me. . . . 
Puddleshine was standing nearby, searching 
Shadowpaw’s gaze. Shadowpaw could see his 
mentor read his expression, and flinched as the 
hope in Puddleshine’s eyes changed to 
disappointment. 
“Is he gone?” Puddleshine whispered. 
Shadowpaw tried to speak, but he found he 
couldn’t make the words come out of his 
mouth. But StarClan . . . 
At that moment, he wished he had never 
come here, never poked his paws into 
ThunderClan’s business. He felt like more than 
a failure; he felt like a murderer. As long as 
Bramblestar had been safe in ThunderClan’s

medicine-cat den, there had been a chance that 
he would have gotten better. 
But now we’ll never know. 
Puddleshine brushed past Shadowpaw into 
the den, then a moment later slowly crawled 
out. By now all the other cats had realized that 
something was going on and had gathered 
around, all watching curiously as Puddleshine 
straightened up and let his gaze travel carefully 
over each of them. 
“Bramblestar has stopped breathing,” he 
announced. 
Alderheart drew in a choking breath, while 
Jayfeather swung around to face Shadowpaw, 
his tabby pelt bristling in anger. “How did this 
happen?” he demanded. “You never said that 
Bramblestar would lose a life!” 
“I didn’t know—” Shadowpaw protested. 
Jayfeather wasn’t listening. “He was 
supposed to get worse and then better, right? If 
he was going to lose a life anyway, we didn’t

need to try this stupid plan. We could have just 
let the sickness run its course, and he could 
have died in his own nest.” He gazed around, 
lashing his tail in frustration. “Whatever made 
any of us think it was worth following an 
apprentice with such a mouse-brained idea? 
Unless . . . unless this was part of ShadowClan’s 
plan all along?” 
At his words Tigerstar leaped forward, 
putting himself between Shadowpaw and the 
furious ThunderClan medicine cat. “Wait!” he 
ordered. “This may not be what we thought 
Shadowpaw’s vision implied, but when has 
StarClan ever been precise? Perhaps this is 
what they meant to happen. Bramblestar has 
more lives, yes?” 
Alderheart, who was looking as stunned as 
Shadowpaw felt, gave a brief nod. 
“Then we must simply wait,” Tigerstar 
continued. “Bramblestar will visit StarClan, and 
then return to begin his next life.”

“That isn’t what Shadowpaw said would 
happen,” Jayfeather growled. 
Tigerstar turned to him, his lips drawn back 
in the beginning of a snarl. “I have no reason to 
doubt my son,” he stated. “Why don’t we all sit 
back and wait?” 
Grudgingly the other cats agreed and 
settled themselves outside the makeshift den. 
Shadowpaw’s heart was racing, and he fixed his 
gaze on the dark tabby curve of Bramblestar’s 
back, all he could see among the piles of snow. 
But there was no movement from the den. 
“How long does it take?” Dovewing asked, 
her whiskers twitching nervously. “I know how 
it was for Tigerstar, when he died and was made 
leader. But that was different. Usually . . . if a 
leader loses a life . . . how long?” 
“Every time I’ve seen a leader lose a life, 
it’s been quick,” Jayfeather replied. 
“Sometimes so quick that you might not even 
realize that a life was lost. The cat simply

breathes out the last breath of one life and 
gasps the first breath of the next one. 
Sometimes there’s a brief pause, but . . .” He 
hesitated, then went on more briskly, “If 
Bramblestar has gone to StarClan’s hunting 
grounds, they will greet him, give him any 
messages they want him to bring back to his 
Clan, and return him to life. He should be back 
any moment now.” 
All the cats resigned themselves to waiting. 
Shadowpaw couldn’t feel anything, not even his 
mother’s comforting nuzzle, as he stared at the 
snow den. He desperately wanted to believe 
that Bramblestar would come back, but this 
wasn’t how he had imagined it would happen. 
And something was nagging at him, like an ant 
crawling through his fur. 
What if the voice I’ve been hearing was 
wrong? What if the older medicine cats were 
right to doubt me this whole time? What if I 
don’t have a connection to StarClan at all,

but am just a foolish, strange cat . . . a foolish 
cat who has led darkness into the Clans? 
Moments dragged by, seemingly endless. 
Every cat was silent, their tension clear in their 
twitching tails and bristling fur. Every cat 
seemed to know that it was taking too long for 
Bramblestar to return, but Shadowpaw guessed 
that no cat wanted to be the one to say so. 
Finally a gray light began to spill over the 
moor, showing the medicine cats’ faces 
growing more and more despairing. The sun 
rose, red and angry. 
As if at a signal, Jayfeather rose to his paws 
and strode over to the den, moved his head 
from side to side to scent the air, then turned 
back to face the others. 
“Bramblestar is dead,” he announced. “For 
good. StarClan has forgotten us.” 
“No!” Alderheart wailed. “No, he can’t be!” 
He pushed past Jayfeather into the den and 
crouched down beside his father’s body.

Shadowpaw watched him, stunned, then 
turned to Tigerstar and Dovewing, who were 
staring at each other, their eyes wide with 
consternation. “We have to leave,” Tigerstar 
meowed. 
Puddleshine ducked into the den to check 
on Bramblestar one last time, while Tigerstar 
scraped the snow with his claws in agitation. 
“We should go,” he continued. “We should go 
now.” As Puddleshine reappeared he signaled to 
him impatiently with his tail. “Come on. 
Hurry.” 
“I’d like to wait and speak to 
Squirrelflight,” Dovewing protested. “I know 
my sympathy won’t do her much good, but 
still . . .” 
“No, it’s not safe,” Tigerstar retorted. “The 
ThunderClan cats might turn on us. We’re on 
unfamiliar territory, and if they come up from 
their camp, they’ll outnumber us. We need to 
leave now. You’re ShadowClan, Dovewing;

don’t forget that.” 
Dovewing stared sorrowfully at her mate, 
but didn’t argue. The ShadowClan cats were 
turning to leave when Shadowpaw heard a 
terrible wailing. 
“No! I came back for you, and you left me!” 
Squirrelflight had arrived, flinging herself 
into the den beside the body of her mate. 
Shadowpaw felt as though he would shatter 
into tiny pieces, like the star over the lake in 
his dream. 
What have I done?

Chapter 22 
Bristlefrost felt as though the sun had fallen 
out of the sky. She couldn’t imagine 
ThunderClan without Bramblestar as leader: 
strong and brave, and wise enough to guide his 
Clan through every danger and hardship. 
And he must have had many lives left, she 
thought. He should have been able to lead us 
for season after season. 
Bristlefrost’s whole body was numb with 
shock; though she knew she was lying on her 
belly, she couldn’t feel the ground beneath her, 
or remember settling into that position. She 
watched as some of her Clanmates clustered 
around Squirrelflight, who sat slumped near the 
entrance to the warriors’ den. She had returned 
from the moors to give her Clan the news of 
Bramblestar’s death, and since then she had 
hardly spoken.

Bristlefrost remembered how 
Squirrelflight’s sister, Leafpool, had died only a 
few moons before, and how Squirrelflight 
herself had spent time in StarClan. It was hard 
to imagine what Squirrelflight must be feeling 
now, to have lost her mate. She must be so 
lonely. . . . 
Wondering if there was anything she could 
do to help, Bristlefrost rose and padded closer. 
“Surely StarClan will contact you, if you go 
to the Moonpool,” Whitewing was meowing as 
Bristlefrost came within earshot. “We can’t 
know why this is StarClan’s will, but if you go 
there and show deference—show that you 
accept what’s happened—then surely they’ll 
give you your nine lives and make you our 
leader.” 
“Yes, you must go,” Sparkpelt, 
Squirrelflight’s daughter, urged her, pressing 
herself against her mother’s side. Her kits were 
tumbling about with Sorrelstripe’s outside the

nursery, where Sorrelstripe kept a weary eye on 
them. “You can’t truly become our leader until 
you receive your nine lives.” 
Squirrelflight raised her head. “What good 
did nine lives do Bramblestar?” she snapped. 
“He’s dead!” 
“But you’re still alive,” Birchfall pointed 
out. “And your Clan needs you.” 
Squirrelflight’s voice dropped to a low 
growl. “I’m not going anywhere until I’ve 
mourned Bramblestar.” 
The cats around Squirrelflight exchanged 
anxious looks. Bristlefrost knew what they 
were thinking as clearly as if they had spoken 
aloud. Our leader is dead, when he should 
have survived, and our deputy is too crazed 
with grief to take his place. 
Oh, StarClan, Bristlefrost thought. What 
will become of ThunderClan now? 
Sunhigh was approaching when Bristlefrost

plodded up the final stretch of moorland toward 
the snow den where Bramblestar’s body lay. 
Twigbranch, Rosepetal, and Thornclaw 
accompanied her, to bring their leader back to 
the camp for his vigil that night. 
When the cats stooped over Bramblestar to 
draw him out of the den, Bristlefrost could hear 
their sharp intakes of breath as they realized 
that his body was almost frozen solid. When 
she and her Clanmates lifted him, she was 
surprised to feel how light he was, and saw her 
own surprise reflected in her Clanmates’ faces 
as they settled Bramblestar on their shoulders 
to carry him back to their camp. His illness had 
drained so much of his strength. 
What cat allowed this to happen? 
Bristlefrost wondered, feeling like a fool. I 
trusted Shadowpaw. I thought his advice 
would save our leader. And now our leader is 
dead. 
Despair crept up on Bristlefrost like a

hunter stalking its prey as she helped carry 
Bramblestar’s body back to the stone hollow. 
When the patrol maneuvered their burden 
through the thorn tunnel and emerged into the 
camp, every cat in the Clan was out in the 
clearing. Several of them broke into anguished 
wails at the sight of their leader’s ice-crusted 
body. Bristlefrost glanced around to see 
Jayfeather and Alderheart crouched close 
together at the entrance to their den. The 
elders, whose task it would be to bear their 
leader away for burial, stood waiting by the 
fresh-kill pile. Squirrelflight had not moved 
since Bristlefrost had left the camp, with 
several warriors still clustered around her. Even 
the kits were aware that something was wrong, 
and they burrowed into their mothers’ fur with 
tiny whimpers of grief. 
The assembled cats parted as Bristlefrost 
and her Clanmates paced forward and laid

Bramblestar’s body down at the paws of the 
elders. With her task finished, Bristlefrost 
wasn’t sure what to do. Glancing around, she 
spotted her mother and father, Ivypool and 
Fernsong, watching with sorrowful 
expressions, and ran over to them with a low 
cry of relief. 
Fernsong nuzzled her close. “Are you all 
right?” he asked. 
Bristlefrost leaned into her father’s 
familiar embrace, thinking how lucky she was 
to have two parents who loved her. I should 
have remembered that when I was 
heartbroken over Stemleaf. 
“I will be,” she replied to Fernsong. “But 
what happens to ThunderClan now?” 
No cat could answer her question. 
“I remember how much Bramblestar taught 
me when I was a kit and an apprentice,” 
Lionblaze meowed. “I believed he was my

father then.” His voice caught in his throat, and 
it was a moment before he could go on. “He 
was the best father a cat could have.” 
Darkness had fallen, and all the cats of 
ThunderClan had gathered to sit vigil for their 
dead leader. Alderheart sat closest, smoothing 
his father’s fur with one paw. Sparkpelt was 
beside him, and Squirrelflight on their leader’s 
other side, her head bowed. Lionblaze and 
Jayfeather sat nearby. Bristlefrost crouched in 
the circle of cats who surrounded them, 
listening to the tributes his Clanmates offered 
to Bramblestar. 
“I remember when we made the journey to 
the sun-drown-place.” Squirrelflight’s voice 
was low, but clear enough to reach the ears of 
every cat. “Bramblestar—he was Brambleclaw 
then—was our leader. He was so brave and 
sensible. Without him we would never have 
made it there, much less survived to return to 
our Clans and give them Midnight’s message.”

A shiver passed through Bristlefrost as she 
heard Squirrelflight speak of that long-ago 
journey, the story Ivypool had told her when 
she was a kit in the nursery. Squirrelflight was 
actually there, she realized, and she and 
Bramblestar helped to bring the Clans to our 
home beside the lake. 
“Don’t forget the Great Storm,” Graystripe 
put in. “Bramblestar was a new leader then, but 
he kept our Clan safe until we could return to 
our home here in the stone hollow.” 
“And he guided us through the struggle with 
Darktail,” Alderheart added. “When the other 
Clans drew away, or gave in to evil, 
ThunderClan never did. And that was because of 
Bramblestar.” He bowed his head and his next 
words were choked out. “He was my father and 
I loved him.” 
Sparkpelt pressed herself closer to her 
brother’s side. “We all loved him. Every cat in 
the Clan. And he was worthy of it.”

A desolate silence fell, broken after a few 
heartbeats by Jayfeather, who rose to his paws 
from where he sat near Bramblestar’s head. 
“Bramblestar was—” he began, then broke off, 
shaking his head helplessly as if the words 
wouldn’t come. 
A moment later he rounded on 
Squirrelflight, his shoulder fur bristling and his 
neck stretched out. “Why did you let 
Shadowpaw kill him?” he hissed. “Where is 
ThunderClan now? We have no leader, and 
without a leader we have no future. Did you 
learn nothing from your time in StarClan?” 
A murmur of protest arose from the 
surrounding cats at Jayfeather’s harshness 
toward a cat who was grieving. Bristlefrost 
didn’t understand how he could be so hostile to 
a cat he had once thought was his mother. 
Bristlefrost could see the hurt in 
Squirrelflight’s eyes, but the deputy remained 
calm, raising her head to confront the angry

medicine cat. “My time in StarClan is no cat’s 
business but my own,” she snapped. “And we 
weren’t much better off when Bramblestar was 
so ill. I believed he was going to die. I had to 
make a choice, and I made it. And I will 
continue to do so as acting leader of this Clan.” 
“Acting leader?” Jayfeather sneered. “What 
good will that—” 
“I believe that when this leaf-bare ends, we 
will hear from StarClan again,” Squirrelflight 
interrupted. “And they will tell us what to do to 
make all this right.” 
Jayfeather looked as though he might say 
more, then closed his mouth with a snap and sat 
down again. Bristlefrost tried to find hope in 
Squirrelflight’s words, but all she could see was 
a bleak future. 
Bramblestar will still be dead. . . . 
The vigil continued, with more cats 
offering their tributes to Bramblestar. 
Bristlefrost was one of the last cats to speak,

wondering what she could contribute when she 
had known the Clan leader for such a short 
time. 
“He made me a warrior,” she meowed at 
last. “It was the proudest day of my life. I will 
honor his memory by being the best warrior 
that I can be.” 
Finally all the cats had spoken. A deep, 
reflective silence fell over the camp. 
Bristlefrost realized that she could make out 
her Clanmates’ faces more clearly; the sky was 
beginning to grow pale with the first light of 
dawn. A whole day had passed since they’d first 
learned that Bramblestar was dead. 
The elders roused themselves, rising to 
stand around Bramblestar’s body, ready to carry 
him out of the stone hollow to the burial place. 
Jayfeather rose too, moving closer to 
Bramblestar’s head. 
“May StarClan light your path, 
Bramblestar.” His voice was steady now, its

anger gone. “May you find good hunting, swift 
running, and shelter when you sleep.” Then he 
nodded to the elders. “It is time.” 
The elders stooped to take up their burden, 
but before they could touch it, a faint ripple 
passed through Bramblestar’s body. 
Bristlefrost gasped, hardly able to believe what 
she had seen. I’m so tired. . . . I must be seeing 
things. 
But around her, all her Clanmates were 
staring too. At first Bristlefrost could see they 
shared her disbelief; then, after a moment, they 
began to look at each other, a gleam of hope 
kindling in their eyes. “Did you see that?” some 
cat muttered. 
“It . . . it could just be his body settling,” 
Alderheart stammered. 
Another ripple, stronger this time, passed 
through Bramblestar. Bristlefrost crouched, 
frozen, hardly daring to breathe. Some cat 
whispered, “This can’t be . . .”

Bramblestar blinked and raised his head, his 
eyes vacant. After a moment he rolled onto his 
belly, and as he turned his head to gaze at his 
transfixed Clan, his eyes gradually focused. 
After a few more heartbeats, he rose slowly to 
his paws. 
Every cat stared at him, stunned by what 
they were witnessing. Some of them backed 
away in alarm and confusion, while others took 
a wary step toward him, as if he were a predator 
who might lash out at them without warning. 
“What’s happening?” Sparkpelt whispered. 
After a moment Bramblestar stretched out 
his forepaws and arched his back in a long 
stretch, as if he had just awoken from a deep 
sleep. It wasn’t death, Bristlefrost realized. He 
looked healthier, too, not so emaciated, and his 
fur seemed to grow fuller, more sleek, as 
Bristlefrost watched. 
Shadowpaw said he would get worse 
before he got better, she remembered. Is he

finally getting better? Yet Bristlefrost was 
hardly able to believe what she was seeing. 
What happened to him? He looked like he 
was dead, for so long. . . . 
Bramblestar padded across to Squirrelflight 
and dipped his head toward her. “Greetings,” he 
meowed. “It’s good to be with you again.” 
Squirrelflight pressed herself against him 
and twined her tail with his. She was purring too 
hard to reply. 
Bristlefrost exchanged a shocked, 
wondering glance with Ivypool. “He’s alive!” 
she exclaimed. “StarClan hasn’t forsaken us!”

Chapter 23 
Puddleshine was already up, busily sorting 
herbs, but Shadowpaw still lay in his nest as 
dawn light grew in the ShadowClan camp. He 
glanced up listlessly as Snowbird appeared; a 
thorn in her bedding had scratched her nose. 
“I’ll fetch you some herbs,” he mewed, 
beginning to force himself to his paws. 
“Oh . . . no, it’s okay,” Snowbird stammered. 
“Thanks anyway, but I see that Puddleshine has 
already got some horsetail over there.” 
Shadowpaw let out a grunt and flopped back 
into his nest. Snowbird gave Shadowpaw a wary 
look as she passed him, and she seemed happy 
to deal with Puddleshine as he treated her and 
then sent her back to her warrior duties. 
A trickle of cats followed Snowbird as the 
morning light strengthened, all of them with 
minor problems, and all of them reluctant to

even look at Shadowpaw. Snaketooth actually 
let out a faint hiss, pointedly turning away. Like 
I care, Shadowpaw thought, watching morosely 
with his nose on his paws. 
They’re afraid of me, he realized. And they 
have good reason to be. I killed Bramblestar, 
at the bidding of . . . who? Or what? 
The day before, Tigerstar and Dovewing had 
tried to comfort him, but there wasn’t much 
that they could say. Shadowpaw could see in 
their faces that they too had begun to doubt his 
connection to StarClan. They knew StarClan 
wouldn’t direct him to kill a leader. 
What made it worse was that Bramblestar’s 
sister, Tawnypelt, had barely moved since the 
news was brought to her. She remained 
crouched in the clearing even when snow 
started to fall, lazily dappling her tortoiseshell 
fur. Shadowpaw longed to comfort her, 
remembering how she had taken him to the 
Tribe of Rushing Water in the hope that they

might cure his seizures. Tawnypelt had been 
there for him when he needed her, and now he 
longed to be there for her. But he knew that 
nothing he could say would help her now. 
Grief is spreading from one end of the 
lake territories to the other, all because of my 
mistake. 
Shadowpaw was still hunched in his nest, 
gloomily asking himself if there was anything 
he could have done differently, when he was 
disturbed by raised voices in the camp outside. 
He looked up, but he couldn’t rouse himself to 
go and find out what was happening. The voices 
sounded surprised rather than hostile, anyway; 
the camp wasn’t under attack. 
Puddleshine hurried out, then reappeared a 
moment later. “Come on,” he urged 
Shadowpaw. “Some ThunderClan warriors are 
here, and they want to speak to you.” 
Shadowpaw raised his head, as wary as if he 
had scented a fox in a thicket. I don’t want to

speak to them. 
Puddleshine must have realized his 
nervousness, for his expression softened. 
“They say they’ve come in peace, Shadowpaw; 
they’re not angry. And even if they were,” he 
added, “you’re in the heart of ShadowClan. 
There’s no way Tigerstar would let anything bad 
happen to you.” 
Slowly Shadowpaw rose to his paws and 
shook off scraps of moss and bracken from his 
pelt. Confusion made his movements clumsy. 
Why wouldn’t ThunderClan be angry? he 
wondered. These are the cats whose leader I 
killed. 
Shadowpaw ventured out of the den, 
blinking in the stronger light outside. Lionblaze 
and Fernsong were there waiting for him, with 
Tigerstar and Dovewing a couple of tail-lengths 
away. Both his parents looked tense; Tigerstar 
had extended his claws, as if he was ready to 
fight.

As soon as the ThunderClan cats spotted 
Shadowpaw, they stepped up to him with tails 
held high in the air and eyes shining with joy. 
Seeing them like that made Shadowpaw even 
more bewildered. Tigerstar and Dovewing, and 
the other ShadowClan cats who were beginning 
to gather, exchanged confused glances. They 
don’t know what to make of it, either. 
“We’ve brought good news!” Lionblaze 
announced, his voice warm with happiness. 
“Bramblestar is alive. Your treatment worked, 
Shadowpaw.” 
Yowls of surprise and excitement exploded 
from the cats standing around, while 
Shadowpaw caught looks of pride and respect 
from Tigerstar and Dovewing. 
“We’re so sorry for doubting you.” 
Fernsong was finding it hard to make himself 
heard above the joyful clamor. “Maybe you can 
see things other cats can’t, or maybe StarClan 
sent you these weird messages so you would

have the courage to try something no other 
medicine cat would have dared. We want you to 
know that ThunderClan doesn’t bear you any ill 
will.” 
“Quite the opposite, in fact,” Lionblaze 
added. 
Shadowpaw stood still, completely stunned 
by the praise that every cat was heaping on him. 
I’m not sure I really did anything. . . . It was 
hard to accept that StarClan really was guiding 
him. If they are, they’ve chosen a very odd 
way to do it. He was still shaken, though he 
tried to hide his doubts; he didn’t want to spoil 
the joy of the ThunderClan warriors. 
“Bramblestar has called another emergency 
Gathering for tomorrow night,” Fernsong 
continued when the noise had died down. “He 
wants to discuss Shadowpaw’s other visions, 
and the way forward for all five Clans.” 
Tigerstar dipped his head. “ShadowClan will 
be there,” he promised.

The ThunderClan warriors turned back to 
Shadowpaw, thanking him and congratulating 
him again, then took their leave. Once they 
were gone, his Clanmates crowded around him. 
“Good job!” Sparrowtail exclaimed. “I 
always believed in you, you know.” 
Right. And hedgehogs fly, Shadowpaw 
thought. 
“We’re really lucky!” Snaketooth mewed. 
“StarClan has chosen just one cat to receive 
their messages—and he’s in our Clan!” 
Remembering how Snaketooth had hissed at 
him in his den, Shadowpaw felt wryly amused at 
how quickly the tabby she-cat had changed her 
opinion. 
Shadowpaw bowed his head, murmuring 
thanks for his Clanmates’ praise, but he felt 
more and more uncomfortable with each 
passing heartbeat. As soon as he could, he 
escaped back to his den. 
Puddleshine followed him, gazing at him

with mingled curiosity and confusion. “I’m 
beginning to doubt myself,” he told 
Shadowpaw. “I examined Bramblestar, and I 
didn’t think there was anything to be done for 
him. But you—my own apprentice—saw a way. 
Clearly you’re the one whose paws are guided 
by StarClan.” Shadowpaw wanted to protest, but 
his mentor went on. “Your connection with 
them isn’t like any I’ve seen before, but I won’t 
doubt you again.” 
A rustling sounded at the entrance to the 
den, and Tigerstar stepped inside. “I’d like a 
word with my son in private,” he meowed with a 
nod to Puddleshine. 
Once Puddleshine was gone, Tigerstar 
padded up to Shadowpaw and touched noses 
with him. “I always knew you were special,” he 
announced. “We don’t know yet what your 
destiny is among the five Clans, but what I do 
know is that you will change things.” 
Shadowpaw listened uneasily. He wasn’t

sure that he wanted to hear what his father was 
telling him. Why has StarClan chosen me? 
Why can’t I be an ordinary medicine cat, like 
Puddleshine? 
Tigerstar’s expression became more 
serious, and he rested his tail on his son’s 
shoulder. “Still, you mustn’t tell the other Clans 
about the message you received about 
codebreakers. Not yet, anyway,” he added 
hastily. “Not until we’re sure what it means . . .” 
Shadowpaw glimpsed apprehension in his 
father’s eyes; he realized that Tigerstar was 
worried. He and Dovewing had broken the 
code. What would happen to them if the 
message was revealed? “I won’t,” he promised, 
feeling that he had no choice but to obey his 
father. 
Relief spread across Tigerstar’s face, and 
he gave Shadowpaw’s ear an approving lick. 
“Get some rest; you’ve had a tough time,” he 
advised before he padded out of the den.

Shadowpaw was thankful to be left alone, 
but he felt more uneasy than ever. If I am the 
Clans’ only connection to StarClan, how can I 
be loyal to all of them, and to my parents, at 
the same time? 
Shadowpaw had expected an atmosphere of 
rejoicing at the emergency Gathering; every cat 
should be glad and relieved that Bramblestar 
had returned from the dead, proving that 
StarClan had not forsaken the living Clans. 
Instead, as soon as ShadowClan thrust their way 
through the bushes into the clearing, he was 
aware of suspicious glances, shoulder fur 
rising, with here and there a hiss of hostility. 
Tigerstar ignored it all, holding his head 
high as he crossed the clearing and leaped into 
the branches of the Great Oak. The other Clan 
leaders were already there. Cloverfoot joined 
the rest of the deputies on the tree roots, while 
Shadowpaw, with Puddleshine beside him,

padded over to sit with their fellow medicine 
cats. He kept his head lowered, not wanting to 
meet any other cat’s gaze. 
Once every cat was settled, Bramblestar 
announced, “Let the Gathering begin.” 
Risking a glance upward, Shadowpaw saw 
the ThunderClan leader standing strong and 
proud at the end of a thick branch that jutted out 
into the clearing. This time there was enough 
moonlight to see him clearly: his muscular 
body, his sleek tabby fur and gleaming amber 
eyes. Shadowpaw could hardly believe that this 
was the same cat who had lain, scrawny and 
unmoving, in the snow den. The ThunderClan 
leader was gazing around him, his expression 
filled with wonder, as if he too was finding it 
hard to believe that he was still alive. 
“I’m pleased to see you all again,” 
Bramblestar continued. “I’ve called this 
Gathering to discuss what happened to me, and 
the messages Shadowpaw has received from

StarClan. Would any of the Clan leaders like to 
begin?” 
“I will,” Harestar responded at once, rising 
to his paws on a branch a little way above 
Bramblestar. He gazed down at Shadowpaw, his 
eyes warm and appreciative. “I’m impressed 
with what I’ve heard,” he meowed. “I know 
Tigerstar believes his son has a unique 
connection to StarClan, and after what he did 
for Bramblestar, I think he might have a point.” 
Shadowpaw relaxed a little when he realized 
he had at least one supporter from another 
Clan, but his belly clenched with nervousness 
as Kestrelflight rose to speak from the group 
of medicine cats. There was a doubtful 
expression in his eyes as he looked at 
Shadowpaw, then turned to address all the 
assembled cats. 
“Does any cat think it’s strange that only 
ShadowClan can communicate with StarClan 
now?” he asked. “After all, if you think back, a

lot of our problems started with ShadowClan. 
They allowed Darktail in, and that caused their 
Clan to fall apart, so that for a while they had to 
merge with SkyClan.” 
Murmurs arose from among the SkyClan 
cats as Kestrelflight spoke, and a few of them 
cast unfriendly glances toward the warriors of 
ShadowClan. 
Mothwing moved to join the WindClan 
medicine cat. “Kestrelflight has a point. And it 
was ShadowClan who wanted all their old 
territory back,” she added. “That almost caused 
SkyClan to leave, against the wishes of 
StarClan.” 
Jayfeather turned toward Mothwing, the tip 
of his tail twitching. “What do you know?” he 
snapped. “You don’t really believe in StarClan, 
anyway.” 
Gasps of horror came from the cats in the 
clearing. Shadowpaw looked around, realizing 
that none of the warriors had been aware of

Mothwing’s disbelief. 
Mothwing looked as if she could hardly 
believe Jayfeather had said this in a Gathering. 
“I don’t believe that’s relevant,” she hissed. 
Jayfeather twitched his tail in irritation. “It 
couldn’t be more relevant. And it’s obvious to 
every cat, every time you open your mouth to 
talk about StarClan.” 
By now all the cats were staring at 
Mothwing, uneasiness or plain hostility in their 
eyes. But Mothwing remained calm. “Actually,” 
she began, “as I’ve already told you, after some 
thought, I can no longer deny that StarClan 
exists. But it’s strange that they’re only 
communicating with Shadowpaw, who is just an 
apprentice.” 
Clamor erupted around the clearing, some 
cats yowling in support of Shadowpaw, while 
others voiced their suspicions of him. 
“He saved Bramblestar!” 
“What are the other medicine cats doing for

us?”
“This is all a ShadowClan plot!” 
Shadowpaw squeezed his eyes shut and 
tried to shrink himself into the smallest space 
possible. He wished that he could flee out of 
the clearing and run back to his home in the 
ShadowClan camp. He hated to feel every cat’s 
gaze on him and listen to their voices 
screeching about his visions and his loyalty. 
Finally he heard his father’s voice raised 
loudly above the rest. “Quiet! This is no time 
for arguments!” 
Gradually the noise began to die down. As 
soon as he could make himself heard without 
yowling, Tigerstar continued. “What does it 
matter if Shadowpaw is the only cat who can 
receive messages from StarClan while the 
Moonpool is frozen? It’s probably because his 
connection to our ancestors is so strong.” 
Frecklewish let out a disdainful snort. “Do 
you really believe that?”

“I do believe it,” Tigerstar mewed 
emphatically. “All I know is a leader was 
brought back to life. That should be enough for 
every cat gathered here.” 
Shadowpaw relaxed a little, daring to look 
up again; he was grateful for his father’s 
support, though he could still hear uneasy 
muttering among the warriors. 
“There is one way to settle this,” Jayfeather 
stated. “If Bramblestar could tell us what he 
saw when he visited StarClan . . .” 
The gaze of every cat turned toward 
Bramblestar, who still stood on his branch, his 
head raised as he stared out above the heads of 
the cats assembled below. A few moments 
passed before he startled, seeming to notice 
the silence, as if he didn’t realize that every cat 
was waiting for him to answer a question. 
“Could you tell us what you saw when you 
lost your life?” Jayfeather repeated. “Were you 
in StarClan?”

Bramblestar seemed to gather himself, as if 
the question needed some thought. Finally he 
nodded. “Yes, I’m quite sure I was.” 
“Did they speak to you before you took up 
your next life?” Harestar asked. 
“They did.” 
“And what did they say?” Mistystar spoke 
for the first time, in a voice full of anxiety. 
“Did they give you any guidance you can pass 
on to the rest of us?” 
Bramblestar turned toward her, his amber 
gaze unfriendly. “Mistystar, you are a Clan 
leader. You know as well as I do that what 
passes between us and StarClan is not to be 
spoken of to any cat. It is private, and I for one 
prefer it to stay that way.” 
Mistystar dipped her head apologetically. “I 
know, Bramblestar. I’m sorry.” 
“StarClan restored me,” Bramblestar went 
on, “and that’s all that matters, surely. And why 
wouldn’t they? I’m a cat who has always

honored the warrior code.” His glance raked 
across the other leaders where they sat near 
him in the branches of the Great Oak. “Why are 
you questioning me?” he demanded. 
For a few heartbeats there was an awkward 
silence while the other four leaders looked at 
one another. Shadowpaw braced himself for 
more argument or accusations. 
“We’re not. We believe you, Bramblestar,” 
Leafstar meowed eventually, speaking for them 
all. “But—” 
“Then, for now, we accept that Shadowpaw 
is our connection to StarClan,” Bramblestar 
continued, cutting off whatever Leafstar would 
have said. “At least until the ice on the 
Moonpool thaws.” 
Murmurs of relief arose from the warriors 
in the clearing. Most of them seemed glad that 
a decision had been reached, though 
Shadowpaw was still aware of a few mistrustful 
looks.

He was hoping that the Gathering might end 
now, so that he could get away from the crowd, 
when Tree rose to his paws from where he sat 
among a group of SkyClan cats. 
“Other cats besides medicine cats get 
visions too,” he pointed out. “We shouldn’t 
assume they’re making it up if they say they’ve 
received a message from StarClan. And it 
doesn’t mean that they’re dangerous.” 
Why does Tree have to bring this up now? 
Shadowpaw wondered. He caught the eye of the 
apprentice Rootpaw, who was sitting beside his 
father. He could see that Rootpaw was giving 
his chest fur a few embarrassed licks, even 
though most other cats were for once grunting 
in agreement with Tree. 
But Shadowpaw couldn’t forget that Tree 
was one of the cats he had seen in his vision of 
the codebreakers. Maybe StarClan isn’t as 
okay with “different” cats as we are. 
“Thank you, Tree,” Bramblestar mewed. His

tone suggested that he didn’t want to hear any 
more from the SkyClan tom. “And now we must 
discuss the way forward. Shadowpaw, you had a 
vision about darkness in the Clans. Is there any 
more you can tell us?” 
A deadlier cold than the chilly air of leafbare 
crept over Shadowpaw. He hadn’t wanted 
even to think about this now, let alone in front 
of so many other cats. Besides, Tigerstar had 
ordered him not to say anything about his 
vision of the codebreakers. “No,” he lied, 
staring at his paws. “That’s all I know.” 
“Then can any cat suggest what a ‘darkness 
within the Clans’ might be?” Bramblestar 
continued. He glanced in Shadowpaw’s 
direction, and Shadowpaw stared at his paws, 
suddenly cold. He can’t know, can he? 
After the moment had passed, Shadowpaw 
looked up to see the Clan leaders exchanging 
bewildered glances. “I could have answered that 
when Darktail was among us,” Mistystar

responded at last. “But he’s gone now, and good 
riddance. Unless any Clan has taken in rogues 
or loners since we last met?” 
“Like we’re that stupid,” Tigerstar muttered. 
“Has any cat seen traces of the Dark Forest 
cats?” Harestar asked. “Would they dare to 
attack us again?” 
“I doubt it,” Kestrelflight, the WindClan 
medicine cat replied. “They learned their 
lesson in the Great Battle. And in any case, that 
wouldn’t be a darkness within the Clans.” 
Shadowpaw began to breathe more freely, 
hoping that the whole question could be set 
aside, when Mosspelt, a RiverClan elder, 
heaved herself to her paws. 
“I wonder if this message has something to 
do with the warrior code,” she began. 
“Bramblestar is right; he is a cat who has always 
honored it. But not every cat follows the code 
as strictly as they could. Not like it was in my 
younger days . . .” Breathing heavily, she sat

down again. 
Shadowpaw forced himself not to flinch as 
Mosspelt’s words struck at the heart of the 
truth. Mosspelt is wise. . . . He stole a look at 
his father, and saw that Tigerstar had grown 
utterly still. 
“A good point, Mosspelt.” Bramblestar 
dipped his head respectfully to the RiverClan 
elder. “That does sound like a possibility.” 
“Then does any cat want to confess to 
breaking the warrior code?” Harestar asked, 
gazing out across the crowd of cats. “Maybe if 
we admit our wrongdoing, it will ease the way 
back for StarClan.” 
Shadowpaw spotted many of the cats giving 
one another uneasy glances, but no cat spoke 
up. He could feel the tension in the clearing as 
if a thunderstorm were about to break. The 
silence was deafening. 
“Well, then,” Bramblestar continued, when 
several moments had passed, “does any cat

know of another cat who has broken the warrior 
code? Would you like to name that cat?” 
Yowls of outrage rose in the clearing at the 
ThunderClan leader’s words. Mistystar’s voice 
cut through the clamor; her blue eyes were like 
chips of ice as she glared at Bramblestar. 
“What are you trying to get at?” she 
demanded. “Do we want to live in Clans where 
cats throw accusations around?” 
While she was speaking, Shadowpaw 
noticed that Bramblestar’s sister, Tawnypelt, 
was staring at her littermate, mingled betrayal 
and shock showing in her face. Shadowpaw 
remembered the story Dovewing had told him 
in the nursery, of how Tawnypelt had been born 
in ThunderClan but had left it to join her father, 
the first Tigerstar, in ShadowClan. She changed 
Clans, just like Dovewing, Shadowpaw 
realized. That makes her a codebreaker, too. 
But is Bramblestar really encouraging some 
cat to report his sister?

“Not at all,” Bramblestar responded to 
Mistystar, his eyes wide and innocent. “All I 
want is to drive out the darkness that is 
threatening the Clans. And how can we do that, 
if we can’t even speak about it openly?” He 
paused and then continued, his tone deeper and 
more serious. “All of us keep talking about our 
connection with StarClan being broken by the 
cold, as if we’re assuming we’ll hear from our 
warrior ancestors again when the Moonpool 
thaws. But how do we know that will happen? It 
hasn’t been long since they told us they wanted 
us to draw closer to them. Have we done that? 
Have we even tried? What if StarClan isn’t 
ignoring us because of the cold? Who’s to say 
they haven’t turned away from us because too 
many cats aren’t following the code anymore? 
Maybe this ‘darkness’ is what has severed us 
from StarClan. Maybe that’s what’s causing this 
dreadfully cold leaf-bare.” 
Tigerstar was gazing at Bramblestar, and

Shadowpaw was alarmed at how meek his voice 
sounded, as if he was frightened even to speak. 
“Is that what StarClan told you when you lost 
your life?” 
Bramblestar looked up at the dark sky, his 
muzzle twisted as if he was pondering what to 
say. “What StarClan told me is no cat’s concern 
but mine,” he replied in a low, cool voice. “I’m 
just posing some questions that I feel the Clans 
need to consider.” 
Shadowpaw felt a wave of relief that 
Bramblestar hadn’t been told to drive out any 
codebreakers—especially not Tigerstar and 
Dovewing—but the silence that followed still 
made him uneasy. Every cat seemed unsure 
what to do. 
“Don’t forget Shadowpaw’s other vision,” 
Bramblestar added after a moment. “The lake of 
fire that destroyed the Clans. That could be 
telling us what will happen if we get this 
wrong.”

A shudder passed through Shadowpaw as 
Bramblestar reminded him of that terrible 
warning. He could see fear in the eyes of every 
cat as they gazed at him and then turned aside to 
mutter to one another. 
“It makes sense that StarClan might be 
upset about the code being broken,” Harestar 
meowed at last. “We’ve had some troubled 
times, so maybe we’ve been more forgiving 
than in the past. And if that’s the case, then we’d 
better not be so forgiving in the future.” 
“Then the only way to draw closer to 
StarClan is . . . what?” Mistystar added. “Find 
cats who are breaking the code and stop them? 
Punish them?” She didn’t sound as if she was 
looking forward to the prospect. 
Shadowpaw thought that all the cats in the 
clearing seemed uncomfortable, too, but 
before any of them could argue, Bramblestar 
spoke again. 
“We will take it one paw step at a time,” he

meowed, his voice warm and reassuring. “All of 
you should think about the warrior code, and 
how it is being followed in your Clan, before 
we meet again at the next full moon.” He gave a 
swish of his tail. “The Gathering is at an end.” 
As Bramblestar leaped down from the 
Great Oak, the meeting began to break up. 
Shadowpaw watched as many cats from all the 
Clans ran up to the ThunderClan leader, 
congratulating him on his recovery. 
“It’s great to see you back, Bramblestar.” 
“The forest wouldn’t be the same without 
you.” Bramblestar seemed uncomfortable with all 
the attention, shifting his paws and flattening 
his ears. “There’s no need for grown warriors to 
act like excitable kits.” His voice was a low 
growl. “Have you never seen a leader come 
back from the dead before?” 
He thrust his way through the crowd and 
headed toward the tree-bridge, followed by his

Clanmates. 
Shadowpaw spotted his mother and father 
looking uneasily at each other—and more 
ShadowClan cats looking uneasily at them. He 
knew that his parents had broken the warrior 
code by becoming mates, because they were 
from different Clans. My very existence 
breaks the warrior code, he thought miserably. 
But if that were true, Shadowpaw added to 
himself, then why would StarClan have chosen 
him to save Bramblestar? 
He knew that he ought to feel happy, even 
triumphant, because of the way he had helped 
ThunderClan. Instead, as he trailed after his 
parents on their long march back to 
ShadowClan territory, all he could feel was 
apprehension. 
What have I done?

Chapter 24 
Rootpaw had just finished carrying in fresh 
bedding for Fallowfern in the elders’ den when 
he heard his sister, Needlepaw, calling for him 
from outside in the camp. Dipping his head to 
Fallowfern, he padded out of the den. “What’s 
the matter?” he asked Needlepaw. 
“Violetshine and Tree want to talk to us,” 
Needlepaw replied. “Tree says it’s important.” 
Rootpaw glanced around, but he couldn’t 
see either of his parents. At the same moment, 
Needlepaw gave him a shove. 
“Out in the forest,” she mewed. “Tree 
doesn’t want any cat to overhear what he has to 
say.”
Rootpaw rolled his eyes. What now? It was 
just like Tree, he reflected, trying not to show 
his irritation as he followed his sister through 
the fern barrier. So many cats had come back

from the Gathering relieved that Bramblestar 
was alive again, but Tree couldn’t just let cats 
be happy. He had to be weird and find some way 
to bring every cat down. 
When he and his sister found Tree and 
Violetshine under a tree just outside the camp, 
Rootpaw noticed that his mother was looking 
bemused at Tree’s serious look. His eyes were 
troubled as he gestured with his tail for the two 
apprentices to come closer. 
“I was unsettled by the Gathering last 
night,” Tree announced, when Rootpaw and 
Needlepaw had burrowed into the pine needles 
by his side. 
“Why?” Violetshine asked. “Everything 
seemed fine to me. Bramblestar is back!” 
Tree gave her a stunned look, as if he 
couldn’t believe what he was hearing. “Didn’t 
you hear what Bramblestar was calling for?” he 
asked. “He said cats should start accusing one 
another of crimes that could get them expelled

from their Clans.” 
Violetshine still looked bewildered. “Why 
are you afraid? You follow the warrior code, 
don’t you?” 
Tree’s whiskers arched in shock. “I can’t 
believe you said that!” he exclaimed. “Have you 
forgotten Darktail? Didn’t you tell me that he 
would manipulate the rules to punish cats he 
was unhappy with?” He hesitated, then added, 
“Like Needletail?” 
Violetshine’s expression was suddenly 
flooded with horror, and though she was clearly 
struggling to speak, no words came. What just 
happened? Rootpaw thought, seeing how upset 
his mother looked, and he wondered who 
Needletail was. Is that where Needlepaw’s 
name comes from? And why does mentioning 
Needletail make my mother look so 
devastated? 
Rootpaw had heard stories about Darktail 
and his Kin, and how they had nearly destroyed

ShadowClan. And he knew that for a while his 
mother had been part of the Kin, and that she 
had eventually helped to destroy it. But 
Violetshine had always refused to talk about it. 
Too raw, too painful, Tree had explained to 
him and Needlepaw. 
“That was Darktail’s Kin,” Violetshine 
responded eventually to Tree. “It had nothing to 
do with the Clans.” 
“Not then,” Tree meowed. “Not yet.” 
Violetshine turned her head away, unable to 
meet his gaze. 
Tree reached out with his tail and gently 
laid the tip on her shoulder. “I just need you to 
understand why I’m suggesting this,” he told 
her. “Should we go and be rogues again? I know 
how to find food wherever we go. I would keep 
you safe.” 
Rootpaw exchanged a shocked glance with 
Needlepaw. He felt every hair on his pelt prick 
with apprehension at the thought of setting out

into the unknown. 
“Leave the Clans?” Needlepaw asked, a 
dubious look on her face. “You can’t be 
serious!” 
A wave of relief surged through Rootpaw as 
his mother shook her head. “I can’t do it,” she 
meowed. “I worked too hard to find my kin. I 
could never leave Hawkwing.” 
Though Rootpaw could see regret in Tree’s 
eyes, his father nodded understandingly. “I was 
afraid you would say that, so I have another 
idea. Maybe we should try to persuade Leafstar 
to go back to the gorge. SkyClan could live on 
its own again, like we planned before the big 
storm.” 
Rootpaw’s relief was swallowed up in 
anger. Trust Tree to make things difficult! “The 
gorge?” he exclaimed. “But Needlepaw and I 
have never even been there! And I like having 
the other Clans around.” 
And it would mean leaving Bristlefrost.

Immediately Rootpaw pushed that thought 
away. The ThunderClan she-cat had made it 
clear that she didn’t feel the same way about 
him. And maybe it’s just as well. The last 
thing the Clans need just now is another pair 
of mates breaking the code! 
Again Violetshine shook her head. “I would 
never go so far away from my sister, 
Twigbranch.” 
“I don’t want to leave the other Clans, 
either!” Needlepaw put in. “And StarClan wants 
us all to live together.” 
Tree flicked his ears in irritation at the 
mention of StarClan. “Okay,” he sighed. “I 
accept that I’ve been outvoted. But can we 
promise, as a family, that we’ll keep our eyes 
open? If things get bad in the Clans, we’ll go— 
with SkyClan or without them.” 
“Okay,” Needlepaw mewed. 
Rootpaw nodded in reluctant agreement 
with his sister, but he still didn’t understand

what his father was meowing about. Surely it’s 
a good thing if cats obey the warrior code? 
“Very well,” Violetshine murmured, still 
clearly unhappy about the decision. “But we 
have to make the decision together. That’s only 
fair.” Tree heaved an even deeper sigh. “Fine.” 
The meeting over, Rootpaw didn’t return to 
the camp. Instead he headed out into the forest. 
Even though he knew he was due to meet 
Dewspring for hunting practice, he needed 
some time alone to clear his head. 
Snow still covered the forest floor, and 
icicles hung from the trees. Rootpaw was so 
used to his paws being numb from cold and the 
chilly wind that probed into his fur that he had 
almost forgotten what it was like to be warm. 
But he still loved the forest, liked to feel that 
he was learning every paw step of it. He didn’t 
feel that anywhere else could really be his

home. 
My apprenticeship is going really well 
now, he thought. He was eager for the day when 
Dewspring would decide that he was ready for 
his assessment. Why would I want to leave? I 
might never become a warrior. Seriously, 
what’s wrong with Tree? 
Rootpaw wondered what it would be like to 
have normal parents. Violetshine was pretty 
normal, he supposed, always calm and 
collected—except over Needletail. What was 
all that about? When Tree had mentioned that 
name, Violetshine had reacted as if he had 
clawed out her heart. 
Lost in his thoughts, Rootpaw jumped, 
startled, when he spotted a dark brown tabby 
tom standing at the other side of a clearing. “Oh 
—sorry!” he gasped, hoping that he hadn’t 
disturbed him. 
The tabby tom looked up when he heard 
Rootpaw, angling his ears toward him. Rootpaw

let out a gasp as he recognized him. 
“Bramblestar!” But what is he doing on 
SkyClan territory? And why didn’t I scent 
him?
Rootpaw opened his jaws to taste the air, 
but he still couldn’t pick up the least trace of 
ThunderClan. What kind of cat has no scent? 
Bramblestar began to pad toward Rootpaw, 
who let out another gasp of mingled disbelief 
and terror. Rootpaw could see the trees at the 
other side of the clearing through 
Bramblestar’s body. It reminded Rootpaw of all 
his father’s stories of seeing dead cats. 
But I don’t have that power. And 
Bramblestar isn’t dead! 
Whatever the Bramblestar thing was, it was 
still coming toward Rootpaw. Gripped by claws 
of pure panic, Rootpaw whipped around and 
raced back to the camp, his belly fur brushing 
the snow and his tail streaming out in the wind 
of his passing.

Behind him, he could hear a fading voice, 
calling out to him. “Wait! You have to help me! 
Please!”

About the Author 
ERIN HUNTER is inspired by a love of cats 
and a fascination with the ferocity of the 
natural world. As well as having great respect 
for nature in all its forms, Erin enjoys creating 
rich mythical explanations for animal behavior. 
She is also the author of the Seekers, Survivors, 
and Bravelands series. 
Discover great authors, exclusive offers, and 
more at hc.com.

Back Ads

Copyright 
WARRIORS: THE BROKEN CODE #1: LOST STARS. 
Copyright © 2019 by Working Partners Limited. Series 
created by Working Partners Limited. Map art © 2019 
by Dave Stevenson. Interior art © 2019 by Owen 
Richardson. All rights reserved under International and 
Pan-American Copyright Conventions. By payment of 
the required fees, you have been granted the 
nonexclusive, nontransferable right to access and read 
the text of this e-book on-screen. No part of this text 
may be reproduced, transmitted, downloaded, 
decompiled, reverse-engineered, or stored in or 
introduced into any information storage and retrieval 
system, in any form or by any means, whether 
electronic or mechanical, now known or hereafter 
invented, without the express written permission of 
HarperCollins e-books. 
www.harpercollinschildrens.com

Cover art © 2019 by Owen Richardson 
Series cover design by Ellice M. Lee 
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data 
Names: Hunter, Erin, author. 
Title: Lost stars / Erin Hunter. 
Description: New York, NY : HarperCollins, 2019. | 
Series: Warriors: the broken code ; [1] | 
Summary: “In the midst of the coldest leaf-bare any 
warrior can remember, the Clans have lost their 
connection with their warrior ancestors, and only one 
ShadowClan apprentice can still hear their voices--or 
their warning about the new shadow rising within the 
warrior Clans”--Provided by publisher. 
Identifiers: LCCN 2018055864 | ISBN 978-0-06- 
282351-9 (hardback) | ISBN 978-0-06-282352-6 
(library) 
Subjects: | CYAC: Cats--Fiction. | Fantasy. | BISAC: 
JUVENILE FICTION / Animals / Cats. | JUVENILE 
FICTION / Action & Adventure / General. | 
JUVENILE FICTION / Fantasy & Magic. 
Classification: LCC PZ7.H916625 Los 2019 | DDC 
[Fic]--dc23 LC record available at 
https://lccn.loc.gov/2018055864

Digital Edition APRIL 2019 ISBN: 978-0-06-282354-0 
Print ISBN: 978-0-06-282351-9 
19 20 21 22 23 PC/LSCH 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 
FIRST EDITION

About the Publisher 
Australia 
HarperCollins Publishers Australia Pty. Ltd. 
Level 13, 201 Elizabeth Street 
Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia 
www.harpercollins.com.au 
Canada 
HarperCollins Publishers Ltd 
Bay Adelaide Centre, East Tower 
22 Adelaide Street West, 41st Floor 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
M5H 4E3 
www.harpercollins.ca 
India

HarperCollins India 
A 75, Sector 57 
Noida 
Uttar Pradesh 201 301 
www.harpercollins.co.in 
New Zealand 
HarperCollins Publishers New Zealand 
Unit D1, 63 Apollo Drive 
Rosedale 0632 
Auckland, New Zealand 
www.harpercollins.co.nz 
United Kingdom 
HarperCollins Publishers Ltd. 
1 London Bridge Street 
London SE1 9GF, UK 
www.harpercollins.co.uk 
United States 
HarperCollins Publishers Inc.

195 Broadway 
New York, NY 10007 
www.harpercollins.com