
Allegiances 

THUNDERCLAN  
LEADER  BRAMBLESTAR—dark brown tabby tom with ambereyes  
DEPUTY  SQUIRRELFLIGHT—dark ginger she-cat with  

green eyes and onewhitepaw 
MEDICINE JAYFEATHER—gray tabby tomwith blind blue 
CATS eyes ALDERHEART—dark ginger tom with amber eyes 
WARRIORS (toms and she-cats without kits) THORNCLAW—golden-brown tabby tom WHITEWING—whiteshe-cat with green eyes BIRCHFALL—light brown tabby tom MOUSEWHISKER—gray-and-whitetom APPRENTICE, BAYPAW (golden tabby tom) POPPYFROST—pale tortoiseshell-and-white 
she-cat BRISTLEFROST—pale gray she-cat LILYHEART—small, dark tabby she-cat with whitepatches and blueeyes APPRENTICE, FLAMEPAW (blacktom) BUMBLESTRIPE—very pale gray tom with 
blackstripes CHERRYFALL—gingershe-cat MOLEWHISKER—brown-and-creamtom CINDERHEART—gray tabby she-cat APPRENTICE, FINCHPAW (tortoiseshell she-
cat) 
BLOSSOMFALL—tortoiseshell-and-whiteshe.cat with petal-shaped white patches IVYPOOL—silver-and-white tabby she-cat 
with darkblueeyes EAGLEWING—gingershe-cat APPRENTICE, MYRTLEPAW (pale brown she-
cat) DEWNOSE—gray-and-whitetom THRIFTEAR—darkgray she-cat STORMCLOUD—gray tabby tom HOLLYTUFT—blackshe-cat FERNSONG—yellowtabby tom HONEYFUR—white she-cat with yellow splotches SPARKPELT—orangetabby she-cat SORRELSTRIPE—darkbrown she-cat TWIGBRANCH—gray she-cat with green eyes FINLEAP—brown tom SHELLFUR—tortoiseshelltom PLUMSTONE—black-and-gingershe-cat LEAFSHADE—tortoiseshellshe-cat LIONBLAZE—golden tabby tom with amber eyes 
QUEENS (she-cats expectingornursingkits) 
DAISY—cream long-furred cat from the horseplace SPOTFUR—spotted tabby she-cat 
ELDERS (formerwarriors andqueens,nowretired) GRAYSTRIPE—long-haired gray tom CLOUDTAIL—long-haired white tomwith blue 
eyes 
BRIGHTHEART—white she-cat with ginger patches BRACKENFUR—golden-brown tabby tom WARRIORS TAWNYPELT—tortoiseshell she-cat with green 
SHADOWCLAN  
LEADER  TIGERSTAR—darkbrown tabby tom  
DEPUTY  CLOVERFOOT—gray tabby she-cat  
MEDICINE CATS  PUDDLESHINE—brown tom with splotches SHADOWSIGHT—gray tabby tom MOTHWING—dappled golden she-cat  white  

eyes DOVEWING—pale gray she-cat with green eyes 
HARELIGHT—whitetom ICEWING—white she-cat with blueeyes STONEWING—whitetom SCORCHFUR—dark gray tom with slashed 
ears FLAXFOOT—brown tabby tom SPARROWTAIL—large brown tabby tom SNOWBIRD—pure white she-cat with green 
eyes YARROWLEAF—ginger she-cat with yellow eyes BERRYHEART—black-and-whiteshe-cat GRASSHEART—palebrown tabby she-cat WHORLPELT—gray-and-whitetom HOPWHISKER—calico she-cat 
BLAZEFIRE—white-and-gingertom CINNAMONTAIL—brown tabby she-cat with whitepaws 
FLOWERSTEM—silvershe-cat SNAKETOOTH—honey-colored tabby she-cat SLATEFUR—sleekgray tom POUNCESTEP—gray tabby she-cat LIGHTLEAP—brown tabby she-cat GULLSWOOP—whiteshe-cat SPIRECLAW—black-and-whitetom HOLLOWSPRING—blacktom SUNBEAM—brown-and-whitetabby she-cat 
ELDERS OAKFUR—smallbrown tom 

SKYCLAN 
LEADER LEAFSTAR—brown-and-cream tabby she-cat with ambereyes 
DEPUTY HAWKWING—darkgray tomwith yelloweyes 
MEDICINE FRECKLEWISH—mottled light brown tabby 
CATS she-cat with spotted legs FIDGETFLAKE—black-and-whitetom 
MEDIATOR TREE—yellowtomwith ambereyes 
WARRIORS SPARROWPELT—darkbrown tabby tom MACGYVER—black-and-whitetom DEWSPRING—sturdy gray tom ROOTSPRING—yellowtom NEEDLECLAW—black-and-whiteshe-cat PLUMWILLOW—darkgray she-cat SAGENOSE—palegray tom KITESCRATCH—reddish-brown tom HARRYBROOK—gray tom CHERRYTAIL—fluffy tortoiseshell and white 
she-cat CLOUDMIST—whiteshe-cat with yelloweyes 
BLOSSOMHEART—ginger-and-whiteshe-cat 
TURTLECRAWL—tortoiseshellshe-cat RABBITLEAP—brown tom APPRENTICE, WRENPAW (golden tabby she-
cat) REEDCLAW—smallpaletabby she-cat MINTFUR—gray tabby she-cat with blue eyes NETTLESPLASH—palebrown tom TINYCLOUD—smallwhiteshe-cat PALESKY—black-and-whiteshe-cat VIOLETSHINE—black-and-white she-cat with 
yelloweyes 
BELLALEAF—pale orange she-cat with green eyes QUAILFEATHER—white tom with crow-black 
ears PIGEONFOOT—gray-and-whiteshe-cat FRINGEWHISKER—white she-cat with brown 
splotches GRAVELNOSE—tan tom SUNNYPELT—gingershe-cat 
QUEENS NECTARSONG—brown she-cat (mother to Beekit, a white-and-tabby she-kit, and 
Beetlekit,atabby tom) 
ELDERS FALLOWFERN—pale brown she-cat who has lost herhearing 

WINDCLAN 
LEADER HARESTAR—brown-and-whitetom 
DEPUTY CROWFEATHER—darkgray tom 
MEDICINE KESTRELFLIGHT—mottled gray tom with CAT whitesplotches likekestrelfeathers 
WARRIORS NIGHTCLOUD—blackshe-cat BRINDLEWING—mottled brown she-cat APPLESHINE—yellowtabby she-cat LEAFTAIL—darktabby tomwith ambereyes WOODSONG—brown she-cat EMBERFOOT—gray tomwith two darkpaws BREEZEPELT—blacktomwith ambereyes HEATHERTAIL—light brown tabby she-cat 
with blueeyes 
FEATHERPELT—gray tabby she-cat CROUCHFOOT—gingertom 
APPRENTICE, SONGPAW (tortoiseshell she-cat) LARKWING—palebrown tabby she-cat 
SEDGEWHISKER—light brown tabby she-cat APPRENTICE, FLUTTERPAW (brown-and-white tom) 
SLIGHTFOOT—black tomwith white flash on his chest OATCLAW—palebrown tabby tom 
HOOTWHISKER—darkgray tom APPRENTICE, WHISTLEPAW (gray tabby she-cat) 
FERNSTRIPE—gray tabby she-cat 
ELDERS WHISKERNOSE—light brown tom GORSETAIL—very pale gray-and-white she-cat with blueeyes 
RIVERCLAN 
LEADER MISTYSTAR—gray she-cat with blueeyes DEPUTY REEDWHISKER—blacktom 
WARRIORS DUSKFUR—brown tabby she-cat MINNOWTAIL—darkgray-and-whiteshe-cat APPRENTICE, SPLASHPAW (brown tabby tom) MALLOWNOSE—light brown tabby tom HAVENPELT—black-and-whiteshe-cat PODLIGHT—gray-and-white tom SHIMMERPELT—silvershe-cat LIZARDTAIL—light brown tom APPRENTICE, FOGPAW (gray-and-white she-
cat) SNEEZECLOUD—gray-and-whitetom BRACKENPELT—tortoiseshellshe-cat JAYCLAW—gray tom OWLNOSE—brown tabby tom GORSECLAW—whitetomwith gray ears NIGHTSKY—darkgray she-cat with blueeyes BREEZEHEART—brown-and-whiteshe-cat 
QUEENS CURLFEATHER—pale brown she-cat (mother to Frostkit, a she-kit; Mistkit, a she-kit; and Graykit,atom) 
ELDERS MOSSPELT—tortoiseshell-and-whiteshe-cat 

Maps 




Prologue 


At the edge of the clearing, beneath the starless sky, the DarkForest cats watched.Around them,mist billowed in the darkness like warmbreath in the ice-cold air.They stared at a warrior. His pelt was bloody and ragged from fighting. It rippled now as he pressed his belly harder against the ground.Awhitetomcircled himslowly. 
The white cat’s flanks showed the scars of countless battles. His eyes shimmered with menace. And yet he did not attack. 
The watching cats shifted impatiently but did not speak. 
Ashfur lashed his tail. Weren’t they enjoying the fight? Was it because Snowtuft was hesitating? The fool was tiptoeing around Rootspring like a nervous kit! “Get on with it,you mangy whitecoward!” 
Snowtuft glanced at him. Was that doubt in his gaze? Rage surged like fire in Ashfur’s chest. Did he have to make every move forthesemouse-hearts? 
Rootspring must die! Without speaking, he flicked the simple, vicious instruction at the spirit cats. It energized them, his thought becoming theirs. Their pelts spiked, their ears flattened,theirtails bushed as they began to yowl. 
“Killhim!” 
“Slit his throat!” 
“Rip himto shreds!” 
As theirscreeches filled the darkness,Snowtuft slid into an attack crouch, as fluid as a snake. Eyes wide with panic, Rootspring backed away. 
Ashfur’s rage cooled and hardened until it sat like granite in his belly. He had known this fury foras long as he could remember; it was like an old friend. With it came the certainty that the warriors who thought they’d defeated him would one day pay for their treachery. They’d ignored his suffering,but he would relish theirs. He would end a grudge born long before his death. One that death itself had not ended. 
How could StarClan have been so stupid? They’d actually believed he’d repented, that he’d forgiven his enemies—even Hollyleaf, his murderer. What fools! They’d had no idea what he’d been planning as he’d pretended to care about their warrior life—hunting, dozing in the sunshine, sharing tongues with friends and kin. It had been enough to make them believe he was one of them, while in secret he’d been exploring every tail-length of StarClan’s hunting grounds,learning allhe could about them.Had they really thought he was going to let Bramblestar and Squirrelflight livein peace? 
It hadn’t taken long to work out that StarClan’s power came from its connection to the living Clans. If he could disrupt that link, he could expose StarClan for the pathetic bunch of elders they were. Even though their youth and strength had been restored,theirminds werefeeblewith age. Without the connection to their descendants, the StarClan warriors would be nothing but memories, and the living Clans, separated from their ancestors, would become as vulnerableas prey. 
It had been easier than he’d expected to close off the existing path to the Dark Forest and the living Clans at the edge ofStarClan’s territory. But he’d known he couldn’t seal himself in with the StarClan cats. He’d clawed a tunnelnear the heart of StarClan’s lands that led deep into the Place of No Stars. No cat knew of it but him. Slowly, deliberately, he had begun to concentrate power into his own paws. But he stillhadn’t known howto reach into theliving Clans. 
Moons had passed, and, all the time, Ashfur’s rage had grown. Yet he’d swallowed it, like bitter prey, and waited. And then Mistystar had lost her first life and Ashfur had at last seen away to return to thelake. 
He’d watched the dying RiverClan leader appear in StarClan, shimmering like a ghost among the star-specked warriors. Leopardstar had greeted her. Her Clanmates had clustered around her, eager for a glimpse of their leader before she returned to the living Clans to begin hernext life. That was when Ashfur realized that while her soul was in StarClan, her body was defenseless: no more than flesh beneath apelt,waiting only fora spirit to inhabit it. 
Finally,he knewhowhe could return to the living Clans. Still pretending to be one of them, Ashfur persuaded the other StarClan cats to let him leave their hunting grounds and return to observe the Clans by the lake, promising he would make sure they were staying true to their precious warriorcode.FreefromStarClan at last,heblocked his secret tunnelwith weeds and branches. Soon the living Clans were despairing over their lost connection with their ancestors, and losing their faith in StarClan. The barrier grew stronger and thicker until StarClan’s connection with the living was broken. 
Without StarClan’s guidance, the lake Clans had been lost. How he’d enjoyed filling the ShadowClan medicine-cat apprentice’s mind with fear. When Bramblestar had become sick,Ashfurhad tricked the young mouse-brain into making the ThunderClan leader sicker, and then Bramblestar had died in the snow. At last, Ashfur had found a way back! Undetected,like slowpoison entering a wound,he’d slipped into Bramblestar’s empty body. 
He’d shuddered as he did, repulsed by the sudden, unfamiliar restrictions of Bramblestar’s ill-fitting pelt. But he’d ignored the discomfort. Finally, he was going to have everything that should havealways been his. 
And yet it had allgone wrong. The Clans had changed. And Squirrelflight wasn’t his mate; she was Bramblestar’s. Hergentle purrs,herloving glances,hadn’t been forAshfur —never for Ashfur. Her love had always been for Bramblestar. 
Rage rose now like bile in Ashfur’s throat, almost choking him. He jerked his attention backto the clearing and glared at the yellow SkyClan warrior. Rootspring would pay for trying to stand in his way. Ashfur let his fury surge into the spirit cats, his thoughts explodingfromtheir mouths in yowls ofhate. 
“Clawhis pelt off!” 
“Rip his ears!” 
Snowtuft lunged at Rootspring and, holding him down, drewbloody clawmarks along thewarrior’s spine. 
Pleasure bubbled in Ashfur’s chest. I’m not cruel, he told himself. This was allSquirrelflight’s fault. She drove me to this. I only wanted the Clans to see what hypocrites they are. It had been satisfying to turn themagainst each other. He’d watched as spite blossomed among the lake Clans as they tried to prove what good and loyalwarriors they were. Ifnothing else,he’d looked forward to watching themrealize they were no betterthan he was. But then Squirrelflight had faked herown death to escape him,and the living Clans had turned against him. They’d betrayed him. He could do nothing but flee to the DarkForest. He had allies here—cats too mean or cruelto make it to StarClan. Since he’d blocked offStarClan,the spirits ofdead cats who belonged there but could no longerfind theirway had also collected in the Dark Forest. He’d made sure they would fight for him as well— whetherthey wanted to ornot. 
He’d thought he still had a chance. If he brought Squirrelflight here, he could make her see her Clan in a new light—that they were nothing but a gang of murderous fox-hearts pretending to be special. She’d see they were no different fromhim.Surely then shecould lovehim? 
Yet, even here, she’d defied him. She’d escaped and taken Bramblestarwith her. 
Ashfur flexed his claws. He wasn’t going to hope any longer. This time he wouldn’t hold back. He was going to punish Rootspring, and then he would destroy whatever he could—the Dark Forest, StarClan, the living Clans. If he couldn’t have what he wanted, then why should any cat in the Clans? He’d take everything fromthem. By the time he was finished,they’d benothing but loners and rogues. 
Adeep thrillshivered beneath his pelt. Curling his lip,he watched Snowtuft throw Rootspring to the ground. The scarred white tom’s claws tightened on the warrior’s throat, digging deeper into already-bloody fur. Snowtuft lifted his gazeto meet Ashfur’s questioningly. 
Spittle drippedfromAshfur’s mouth and splashed onto the darkearth.“Killhim,” he snarled. 

Chapter 
1 


“Kill him.” 
Ashfur’s snarl set fresh panic sparking through Rootspring’s pelt. Bloodlust sharpened the malice in the darkwarrior’s eyes. He’s enjoying this. The DarkForest cats at the edge of the clearing screeched in excitement. They were spurring Snowtuft on, as pitiless as a pack of dogs. Snowtuft’s claws curled like burning thorns into Rootspring’s throat. 
The pain brought focus. He wasn’t ready to die. He pulled up his hind paws, tucked them beneath the scarred tom’s belly, and, with every whisker of energy left in his body,heaved himaway. 
Agony seared through Rootspring as Snowtuft’s claws ripped clumps of fur from his neck. He scrambled up, but Snowtuft had already found his paws and was facing himin a crouch, his muscles bunched so tightly that, when he leaped to attack, Rootspring knew he would strike faster than a hawk. And yet he could see helpless desperation in Snowtuft’s eyes. He doesn’t want to hurt me. But he has no choice. 
Rootspring narrowed his eyes. Snowtuft’s gaze once more was on his neck. I have to stop him. As Snowtuft leaped, Rootspring ducked beneath him, slamming his head into the white tom’s chest and thrusting upward with a grunt. As Snowtuft struggled to keep his balance, Rootspring twisted quickly and hooked his claws into the white tom’s pelt,hauling himto the ground with athud. 
Around him,theDarkForest and spirit cats’eyes flashed with angeras they sawSnowtuft fall. 
Ashfurflattened his ears.“Get up,you mouse-brain!” 
The watching cats hissed. 
Onecat’s yowlroseabovetheothers.“Rip his pelt off!” 
Rootspring stiffened. Was that Sandynose? Griefjabbed his belly. His former Clanmate was cheering Snowtuft on, as though he’d never patrolled beside Rootspring, or shared prey with himafteralong day’s hunting.Rootspring glanced up. 
The stocky brown tom’s face was twisted with hate. Beside him, Stemleaf was yowling too. It would break Bristlefrost’s heart to seeherfriend and Clanmatelike this. 
“Finish him!” 
Despair hollowed Rootspring’s belly. Dappletuft, Softpelt, and Conefoot were beside them; Strikestone and Frondwhiskertoo. 
As he hesitated, Snowtuft tore free of his grip and sprang to his paws. The white tom’s eyes glistened with an apology as helunged again at Rootspring. 
Rootspring reared to meet the attack, lashing out with swipe after swipe, letting his training guide his paws as his thoughts whirled. Stemleaf had been a loyal ThunderClan warrior; he’d been Bristlefrost’s friend and part of the rebellion against Ashfur when he had used Bramblestar’s body to control ThunderClan. Dappletuft, Softpelt, and Conefoot had been rebels too. They’d died fighting Ashfur beside the lake. They’d never act this way if they had even the slightest choice.Did Ashfurhaveso much powerthat he could makeloyalwarriors turn against theirallies? 
Claws raked Rootspring’s jaw. The pain shocked him. Snowtuft was stillfighting back. Rootspring blocked out the cries of his former friends. He couldn’t let Ashfur win. He was fighting not just for his own life, but for the spirits of the cats Ashfur had already killed. He dropped onto his belly as Snowtuft aimed another blow at his muzzle, then rolled overand hooked his claws into Snowtuft’s shoulders. Holding the white tom tight, he curled around him and churned sharp claws at his spine. 
Snowtuft twisted free with a shriek, leaving tufts of fur between Rootspring’s claws.Heturned and hurled himselfat Rootspring. The power of the white tom’s attack caught Rootspring off balance. As he thumped to the ground, he glimpsed Mapleshade glowering among the encircling cats. Not allthe cats here were being controlled by Ashfur. Some had been in the Dark Forest for moons and wanted to hurt the living as much as theirleaderdid. 
Rootspring grunted as Snowtuft landed on top of him. 
As the weight of the white tomknocked the breath fromhis body, he saw a familiar tabby tom watching the fight, his whiskers twitching with cruel excitement. Rootspring was startled. What was Darkstripe doing here? Hadn’t Rootspring pushed the fox-hearted warrior into the dark waterthat was flooding theDarkForest?Ragesparked in his chest.Darkstripewas thereason Rootspring was stranded in this place. 
You should be dead. 
Grunting,Rootspring rolled and curled his claws into the earth, dragging himself along the ground as Snowtuft’s claws drewarcs offire in his flank. He’d been trying to make his way back to the living world behind Bristlefrost and Shadowsight when Darkstripe had attacked him. His rage hardened and, suddenly, pure, murderous hatred for the tabby tomflashed likefirein his thoughts. 
The intensity of it shocked Rootspring. He froze for a moment. He’d neverfelt such loathing forany cat. He shook himselffree fromSnowtuft’s grip and, as quick as cornered prey,turned on the white tomand raked his claws across his muzzle. The DarkForest must be getting to him. He couldn’t let it. He would not allow the evil that had festered and grown in this place to infect him. He pushed hard into the earth with his hind paws and flung himself at Snowtuft. As he sent the white tom staggering backward, Rootspring ducked low and knocked his paws from beneath him. 
Rootspring leaped on top ofSnowtuft as he fell,and pinned his shoulders to the ground, trembling with the effort as Snowtuft squirmed beneath his grip. 
He stared into the white tom’s frightened eyes, pushing anger away. What do I do now? He couldn’t kill this cat. Snowtuft had tried to help him. A cat who died in the Dark Forest would be gone forever,neverto see kin orClanmates again; he would be nothing but a memory. The thought sent a tremor down Rootspring’s spine. What could be worse than that? Besides, hadn’t he secretly been hoping to get Snowtuft out of this place? If he could defeat Ashfur, he might be able to persuade StarClan to take himin. Whatever terrible sins the Dark Forest cat had committed in life, he’d committed them long ago, and he had since helped Rootspring to fight Ashfur.Didn’t he deservesomereward? 
Snowtuft’s gaze reached for his, shimmering with desperation. 
Can I kill another cat to save myself? Rootspring wondered. As he hesitated, Snowtuft’s gaze flashed toward Ashfur. 
“Can’t you do anything right?” The dark warrior’s yowl seemed to make even the darkness shiver. His eyes flitted toward the watching mob.“Oneofyou,killhim!” 
The cats rushed forward, jostling and almost tripping over one another as they competed to obey Ashfur’s command. Panic shrilled through Rootspring’s blood. He let Snowtuft wriggle free and faced the encircling horde as they closed in on him, pelts bristling and gazes glittering with violence. 
Through his panic,Rootspring remembered Dewspring’s words. Look for the weakest part and break through. His mentor had taught him what to do if he was surrounded. Rootspring scanned the advancing cats. Conefoot had drawn back his lips. Beside him, Stemleaf flattened his ears. Dappletuft snarled, his eyes dark with menace, but Rootspring could see that the RiverClan warriorwas limping. The deep clawmarks that had ended his life stillshowed on his chest.Rootspring’s heart leaped.That was his way out. 
He charged at Dappletuft and, shoving the unsteady RiverClan tom into Stemleaf, barged through the line. As Dappletuft fell and Stemleaf stumbled, Rootspring slid past themlike a rabbit slipping through brambles. Hope surged in his chest as he sawshadows ofthe DarkForest open before him. They would swallow and hide him if he reached them. Heraced across theclearing,his flanks heaving as hefled. 
Then teeth sank into his hind leg. His breath caught in his throat as they hauled himbackward. Pain seared his fur as claws sank into every part of his pelt and dragged him screeching into the mob. As he flailed in desperation, trying to fight his way free, he saw Ashfur’s eyes glinting among the blurofteeth and pelts. 
I’m going to die here. Rootspring felt hope drain away. 
Terror dragged him into a darkness he felt sure must be death. His thoughts flashed to memories ofBristlefrost:how she’d pulled himfromthe lake when he was stilla ’paw, and how she’d looked at himas they sat in the moonlight in the shadowof a willow, far away fromthe lake and their duty to theirClans.Theway hergentleface had shonelikestarlight. 
His breath slowed as grief swallowed his heart. It swept away the fearas he realized he would neversee heragain. It numbed thepain oftheclaws and teeth and drowned out the growls and hisses of the Dark Forest cats. He could no longer feel their hot breath or smell their rancid fur. Going limp,he gavehimselfup to death.What elsecould hedo? 
Out of the corner of his eye, he saw a pale gray pelt moving in the darkness beyond the cats. Rootspring twitched as he recognized it. Bristlefrost. It seemed like mist, soft against the shadows of the forest. I’m seeing things. His heart ached forher. He gazed at the mirage,thankfulthat this would be his last memory. But the mirage didn’t fade. It moved closer. Bristlefrost? She was charging toward him, herblue-green eyes widewith outrage.Are you really here? 
Rootspring yelped as pain cut once more into his consciousness.TheDarkForest cats weretearing at his pelt. Then, suddenly, they let go and turned on a new enemy. Bristlefrost! Shewas actually here! 
Swiping one way, then the other, she cleared a path through the mob. Rootspring scrambled to his paws, ignoring the sting of his wounds. Bristlefrost! He could still hardly believe it. He watched her knockConefoot aside, her gazefixing on him.She’s come to rescue me! 
“Run!” Her screech sent fresh energy surging beneath his pelt. 
But he wasn’t going to let any ofthesemangy fox-hearts hurt her. With a snarl, he pushed his way between two warriors and shoved another off its paws. He had to reach Bristlefrost. She wasn’t going to die here. And neither was he. 


Chapter 
2 


Shadowsight blinked open his eyes.I’m in the Dark Forest again! He looked around, scanning for danger. Twilight lit the twisted trees with an eerie glow. Only a few moments ago, he’d been following Bristlefrost through darkness, the Sisters’ singing echoing in his mind as they guided them here. Nowhe flattened his ears against the sounds ofbattle. Yowls tore the dank air and the scent of blood touched his nose. 
He looked around for Bristlefrost, and alarm crackled through his pelt as he saw her streak away fromhim, leap a tree root, and dodge around a trunk, running at full speed toward the sounds ofbattle. 
“Wait!” He raced after her, pulling up where the forest opened and dim light showed a clearing. A mob of cats seethed there like swarming eels. Pelts rippled; tails lashed; eyes flashed with aggression. Shadowsight’s breath caught in his throat as Bristlefrost hurled herselfat the throng.Does she have bees in her brain? She hauled a tabby away from the group and flung himaside,then plunged deeperinto the crowd. 
Shadowsight watched her, hardly able to believe his eyes.What in StarClan are you doing? Then he recognized a yellow tom at the center of the battle. Rootspring. He looked beaten, but as Bristlefrost fought her way closer, the SkyClan warrior lifted his head. Fresh light sparked in his bluegazeas he sawher. 
I have to help them. But how? Shadowsight had never been a good fighter; his training had been in herbs, not in battle moves. And this mob was clearly underthe controlof Ashfur. What else couldbe driving themto this frenzybut the darkwarrior’s hungerforrevenge? 
Shadowsight’s paws seemed rooted to the earth. He could stillfeelthe lingering stiffness in his leg fromhis fight with Ashfur.Ifhe leaped in now,he might be more trouble to his friends than help. His heart pounded in his ears. What can I do? 
Scanning the fighting cats, he spotted Ashfur. The dark warrior hung back from the battle and watched through slitted eyes. His ears and tail were rigid, as though he was concentrating hard. Shadowsight backed further into the shadows. 
Another pelt caught his eye. He recognized at once the ragged black cat pressed between two spirit cats as they lashed out at Bristlefrost. Spiresight. The skinny tom had saved his life twice now. His eyes were dull, as though he hardly saw. And yet he yowled and lunged like a warrior,his body moving though his gaze betrayed no consciousness. Did heeven realizewhat hewas doing? 
Bristlefrost reached Rootspring. Wordlessly, as though they’d trained side by side for moons, they pressed together, tail to tail; rearing, they lashed out with their forepaws, swiping viciously at every muzzle they could reach as thefought theirway through themob.With aspeed and strength that amazed Shadowsight, they opened a path to the edge, then dropped down on all fours and swapped glances. 
“Wecan do this,” Bristlefrost growled. 
Rootspring nodded, and they turned back to face their attackers. 
A white-and-ginger tom shot from the advancing mob and dived at Bristlefrost. Stemleaf? Shadowsight’s ears twitched with surprise. Hadn’t he trained alongside Bristlefrost in ThunderClan? The tomswiped at her muzzle. She ducked and knocked himaway with a powerfulblow to his cheek. He reeled, taking a moment to regain his balance, then turned his gaze on her. His eyes were cold and vicious. A chill ran along Shadowsight’s spine as Bristlefrost hesitated. It must go against all her instincts to fight a Clanmate she’d sworn to defend. 
Then Stemleaf’s eyes widened, as though awareness had returned for a moment. He paused, looking as hesitant as Bristlefrost,and Shadowsight’s heart quickened. Was the ThunderClan warrior coming to his senses? How strong, he wondered, was Ashfur’s hold on these cats? Especially if they’d been loyal warriors in life—surely that loyalty must still be buried somewhere in their hearts. Shadowsight’s thoughts quickened. He had been able to break Ashfur’s control over Bramblestar by interrupting the evil cat’s concentration. 
He looked again at the darkwarriorand sawthat his gaze had not wavered. It was fixed on the fighting cats,his tailas stiff as dead prey as he seemed to focus every whisker of energy on them. Controlling so many cats had to be taking a hugeamount ofeffort. 
Stemleaf’s gazeemptied oncemore,as though thepart of him that recognized Bristlefrost had died, and he leaped at her, sinking his teeth into herscruff and dragging her to the ground.Rootspring’s pelt bushed.He leaped toward her,but Softpelt darted in front of him and batted him away. As Rootspring fought to keep his balance, the RiverClan she-cat knocked his paws frombeneath him, rolled himonto his spine,and began clawing his belly with vicious hind paws. 
Shadowsight looked at Ashfur again. The evil tom’s flanks were trembling as he focused on the fight. It is hard for him. Shadowsight shifted his paws, his thoughts whirling in his mind. Can I distract him? What would be the best way to drawhis attention? 
Shadowsight spread his claws and hooked theminto the chilly soil. He felt dampness beneath themand sankinto it, allowing his thoughts to unfurltoward Ashfur. He’d tended to the dark warrior when he’d been a prisoner in ShadowClan; he’d dressed his wounds and sat with himand spoken with himmore than any other Clan cat had. During that moon, he’d forged a connection with Ashfur that made Shadowsight shudderas he remembered it—hownaive he’d been…. 
But nowhe had to reach forthat connection again. 
He opened his heart to it and let it roll over him, until it seemed to seep into every hairon his pelt. Adeep,brooding anger, darkened by jealousy, bloomed inside him. Shadowsight felt queasy. Suddenly he could see anger in the tiny quiverin Ashfur’s whiskers. He could read jealousy in theblackness ofthedarkwarrior’s eyes.It was vengeance that was driving him. Vengeance, because Squirrelflight had dared to lovesomeothercat! 
How could that be an excuse for the kind of malice Ashfur had inflicted on the Clans? A true warrior accepted defeat and moved on. Protecting their Clan was more important. But Ashfur had let his bitterness grow until it tainted his whole life. He must have nursed it in StarClan so that it poisoned his mind even afterdeath. And nowhe was determined to make all the Clans suffer, and all because Squirrelflight had chosen Bramblestarinstead ofhim. 
Shadowsight shook out his pelt, eager to break the connection that had let Ashfur’s emotions invade his thoughts foramoment.At least nowheknewwhat to do. 
In the clearing, Bristlefrost screeched, pain sharpening her yowl. Stemleaf had sunk his teeth into her shoulder. He was dragging her across the forest floor, toward the other spirit cats, whose eyes glittered with excitement. Ashfur flicked his gaze toward a mottled tomnearthe front. The tom darted across the clearing and clawed Bristlefrost’s ear. Anotherfollowed and bit into herflailing hind leg. 
“Let hergo!” Rootspring struggled free ofSoftpelt’s grip and raced forBristlefrost. 
As he reached her, Ashfur swept his gaze over the mob, and a moment later, they all surged forward. Their hisses filled the air. Shadowsight smelled fear-scent as Bristlefrost and Rootspring disappeared beneath the teeming pelts. Panic flared like lightning through his fur. He had to stop this. 
“Squirrelflight loves Bramblestar!” He glared at Ashfur as his yowl rang out over the clearing. “She’ll never love you.” He knew that the dark warrior’s fury was not a strength, but a weakness; his jealousy was a wound that could be hollowed out untilthe pain was so intense that he couldn’t think of anything else. Shadowsight yowled again. “Shechose Bramblestarand shealways will.They arehappy together and you can’t change that.” He held his breath as he watched forthedarkwarrior’s response.Ashfur’s vicious glarestayed on thespirit cats,but his tailwas quivering. 
Hope pricked in Shadowsight’s chest.“Ifyou truly loved Squirrelflight, you’d want her to be happy,” he went on. 
“You wouldn’t be trying to destroy everything she loves.” Was the fur along Ashfur’s spine twitching? “You have no idea what love really is.” Fear churned in Shadowsight’s belly. He was deliberately provoking a warriorcapable ofthe worst cruelty. But he had to break Ashfur’s concentration, no matter the cost. Rootspring’s and Bristlefrost’s lives depended on it. He forced himself to go on. “How could a warrior like Squirrelflight ever love a warrior like you? No wonder she chose Bramblestar. He’s everything you’re not. He’s brave and loyal. He’s a true warriorin a way you could neverbe.” 
The spirit cats were slowing, theirpelts smoothing, their tails growing limp. A few of them straightened and looked around, confusion in their eyes, as though they’d woken froma dream. It’s working! Shadowsight edged forward so they could see him. “Ashfur is controlling you!” he yowled at them. “You have to fight it.” Recognition was sparking in their eyes, as though they were seeing each other for the first time and suddenly understood what they were doing here. Shadowsight’s throat tightened as Ashfur’s gaze turned slowly toward him. He forced himself not to tremble. “Quick!” he called to the spirit cats. “He’s lost concentration!Run away whileyou can.” 
Some ofthecats turned and fled toward thetrees.Others seemed frozen to the earth. They glanced fearfully toward Ashfur, as though too frightened to escape him. Only the cats at the farthest edge ofthe battle seemed unafraid. They glared at the milling spirit cats with undisguised fury. They must be true Dark Forest warriors, Shadowsight thought. These weren’t cats who had died recently and found their path to StarClan blocked. They belonged here. They were fighting forAshfurbecausethey wanted to. 
Bristlefrost and Rootspring were staggering to their paws. Rootspring shook out his bloody pelt and began anxiously sniffing Bristlefrost, as though checking her wounds. Stemleaf stood like stone and watched them, his eyes wide with shock. He seemed to flinch as Bristlefrost turned toward him.Heblinked at herhelplessly.“I’msorry.” 
“Shadowsight’s right,” she told him. Her mew was gentle. Pity welled in hereyes. “Ashfurwas controlling you. You haveto fight it….” 
Stemleaf took a step back, shaking out his pelt. He wouldn’t meet hereyes.Doesn’t he believe me? 
Bristlefrost added softly, “Spotfur needs you to watch overherfromStarClan.She’s missed you so much.” 
Now Stemleaf’s eyes met hers, glistening. “I’d have stayed with herifI’d had thechoice.” 
“Iknow,” Bristlefrost told him. 
“TellherIloveher.” 
Bristlefrost nodded. “Come with us.” She flicked hertail. “We need to get away while we can.” As she turned toward the trees, the remaining spirit cats finally began to scatter, racing forthecoverofthe forest. 
Ashfur bristled with fury. “Don’t let themget away!” he growled. 
Shadowsight’s belly tightened as the Dark Forest warriors charged after the spirit cats. Dappletuft tried to duck beneath a bramble, but a Dark Forest she-cat with a scar running along her spine grabbed his tail between her teeth and hauled himback.Softpelt darted into the shadows. A burly tom charged after her, and Shadowsight heard a screech. A moment later he saw the tom dragging Softpelt backinto the clearing by herscruff. 
Shadowsight’s heart sank. Slowly, the Dark Forest warriors were herding the spirit cats back into the clearing. Theirescape thwarted,the defeated cats cowered in front of the bared teeth and unsheathed claws of their captors. He looked backtoward Bristlefrost,reliefpricking in his paws as he saw her already haring toward the trees, Rootspring and Stemleaf at her tail. Run! he urged silently. Ashfur wouldn’t miss a second chanceto killthem. 
Bristlefrost’s gray pelt was quickly swallowed by the forest’s shadow. Rootspring disappeared after her. Stemleaf was trailing,his frightened eyes fixed on Rootspring’s tailas it snaked away into darkness. 
No! Shadowsight froze as he saw Mapleshade pelt after them. She swooped across the dark earth as fast as a hawk, herpelt flat against herpowerfulframe. Hurry! Shadowsight urged Stemleafon,panic bursting like fire in his chest as the ThunderClan warrior stumbled, his paw buckling on a root. Mapleshade’s eyes lit with satisfaction as he faltered. She leaped and flung her paws toward him, grabbing his hindquarters and rolling with him as he tumbled to the ground. Stemleaf tried to struggle free, but Mapleshade was too strong.Holding himdown with one paw,she slashed his chest with her other. The ThunderClan warrior’s eyes widened with shockand hefelllimp. 
Please don’t die here! Shadowsight could hardly believe his eyes.Stemleafmustn’t disappearforever. Spotfurneeded him, even if only in StarClan. How could Mapleshade be so cruel? Shadowsight had heard tales of her nastiness as a DarkForest mentorduring the Great Battle.But ifshe’d been so tough,why was she following Ashfur’s orders now? She clearly wasn’t being controlled by him like the other spirit cats. What could she possibly have to gain by helping Ashfurwreakhis revengeon the living Clans? 
Shadowsight peered at Stemleaf’s body. Was he dead or just injured? Shadowsight couldn’t make out any blood. He began to skirt the clearing to get a better look as Mapleshade tried to nudge the limp tom roughly to his paws. 
As he neared, Shadowsight saw the she-cat glance at him. His blood ran cold as her gaze flicked past him, satisfaction flashing in her eyes. What had she seen? 
Shadowsight glanced over his shoulder. Blood roared in his ears as he saw Ashfur padding after him, ears flat, eyes slitted with menace. Shadowsight froze for a moment, terror pulsing through his paws. I have to escape. He darted between the trees,hoping the shadows would hidehim. 
The steady thumping of Ashfur’s paws behind grew louder as the dark warrior drew closer. Terror threatened to overwhelm Shadowsight. His pads slithered on the damp earth.He felt hot breath on his tail.Help me! Ifonly StarClan could come to his aid. He felt powerless. The only thing he could do nowwas fight.Panic-stricken,he turned to face his attacker. 
Ashfur’s lip twisted in a snarl, his face a whisker from Shadowsight’s. Breathless with horror, Shadowsight backed away untilhe felt rough barkagainst his spine. Atree trunk. If only it could swallow himand protect himfromAshfur’s rage.The darkwarriorloomed overhim,his face twitching as though he could barely controlthe angerwelling inside him. Shadowsight closed his eyes. Time seemed to slow as he braced himselffortheclaws that would rip open his muzzle. 
He just hoped he’d given Bristlefrost and Rootspring enough timeto get away. 

Chapter 
3 


Bristlefrost glanced back. “Where’s Stemleaf?” She 
slithered to a halt. There was no sign of the white-and.gingertom.“Wecan’t leavehimbehind.” 
Rootspring pulled up beside her. “I’ll find him.” As he began to race toward the clearing, movement deeper in the forest caught Bristlefrost’s eye. 
Alarmsparked through herfur.“Wait!” 
Through thetrees,shesawAshfurgrab Shadowsight by the scruff and fling himagainst a tree. The medicine cat hit the trunk with a thud and slid, dazed, among its roots. Bristlefrost’s heart seemed to stop as the dark warrior padded toward Shadowsight. “We have to help him!” She darted toward Shadowsight as he struggled to find his paws, but Rootspring hooked her tail and tugged her back. “I’ll takecareofAshfur,” hemewed.“You find Stemleaf!” 
Before she could argue, Rootspring pelted away, zigzagging between the trees. Bristlefrost held her breath as she watched him barrel into Ashfur and knock the dark warrioroffhis paws. She wanted to help him,but she had to find Stemleaf. 
She raced for the clearing and reached it, breathless. Where is he? The Dark Forest warriors were pressing the spirit cats toward the middle of the clearing. Softpelt and Dappletuft huddled together. Strikestone and Conefoot shrank back in terror, the rest eyeing each other helplessly as thesnarling warriors stalked around them. 
Then she saw him. In the shadows at the side of the clearing, Mapleshade was shaking Stemleaf by his scruff. When the tortoiseshell-and-white she-cat let go,he dropped to the ground with a groan. “Get up, you mouse-heart!” she snarled. 
Stemleaf lifted his head. Blood from a torn ear ran into his eyes, coloring themcrimson. He blinked at Mapleshade and began to haulhimselfto his paws. 
“Get over there with the others.” Mapleshade nudged himroughly with hermuzzle.“Did you really thinkyou could escape?” 
Anger surged through Bristlefrost. She drew her lips back into a snarl and charged toward the Dark Forest she-cat. Her paws moved so lightly over the ground that Mapleshade didn’t seemto hear her. Bristlefrost leaped and felt a surge of satisfaction as she slammed into the other she-cat, claws outstretched, ears flat. Mapleshade fell, rolling onto her side like a helpless kit. Bristlefrost rolled with her, surprised that it had been so easy to knock the Dark Forest cat from her paws. Surely a seasoned warrior wouldn’t be defeated so quickly? Her heart lurched at the feel of claws hooking her pelt. The sting made her wince, and she realized that Mapleshade hadn’t fallen at all—the old she-cat had dropped into a defensive roll and was pulling Bristlefrost with her. A moment later, Bristlefrost’s shoulders were pinned to the earth. She yelped in pain as hind claws raked her belly. Mapleshade’s breath bathed her muzzle,and triumph sparked in theevilcat’s gaze. 
Bristlefrost gritted her teeth. Mapleshade wasn’t the only warrior who knewbattle moves. She let herself falllimp —only for a moment, but long enough for Mapleshade’s grip to loosen with surprise. As it did, Bristlefrost darted frombeneath the DarkForest warrior, her lithe body quicker and nimbler than the more powerful she-cat. She spun and swung a blow at the she-cat’s muzzle before Mapleshade could move. She felt furand blood clump beneath herclaws. Mapleshade recoiled and Bristlefrost raked her cheek with herotherpaw,delivering blowafterblowbeforeMapleshade could regain herbalance.“Run!” shehissed at Stemleaf. 
The white-and-ginger tomhadfoundhis paws and was watching, his eyes wide. As he hesitated, Bristlefrost threw her whole strength into a fresh blow that sent Mapleshade reeling. 
“Run!” she yowled again. But Stemleaf was staring into the forest, where Rootspring was guiding Shadowsight between the trees. The medicine cat’s paws were unsteady and hewas leaning heavily on theSkyClan tom. 
Bristlefrost followed Stemleaf’s gaze. Ashfur was standing motionless as the two toms limped away. 
Bristlefrost frowned, puzzled. Why isn’t he stopping them? He stared toward the clearing, his gaze dark with intent, his body stiff,as hefocused his attention on thespirit cats. 
Bristlefrost’s pelt grew cold as fear left the spirit cats’ eyes. Their pelts smoothed; their ears pricked. Noiselessly, they turned and began to head into theforest. 
She glanced back to Stemleaf. The warrior’s eyes had begun to cloud. He turned his face toward her. “Get away fromhere,” hecroaked.“Ican’t promiseIwon’t hurt you.” 
Bristlefrost swallowed back panic. Ashfur was taking controlofhis mind again.“Fight it!” she mewed. 
“I’mtrying.” Stemleafwas trembling. 
Bristlefrost watched, herpaws frozen to the earth as she saw the familiar spark she’d recognized in his eyes disappear,and oncemoreStemleafbecame astranger. 
Heglowered at her.“You shouldn’t havecomehere.” 
Bristlefrost’s heart sank. She couldn’t save himwhile he was like this. As he bared his teeth, she scrambled away, racing toward Rootspring. They had to get out of here. But the forest was already rippling with pelts as Ashfur’s spirit cats moved through it. The Dark Forest cats who moments ago had blocked theirescape walked among them; they were allies oncemore. 
Bristlefrost skidded to a halt beside Rootspring. He was propping Shadowsight up,one shouldertucked beneath the medicine cat’s. Shadowsight’s eyes were glazed. “Is he okay?” Bristlefrost mewed. 
“He’s pretty out ofit,” Rootspring told her. 
Bristlefrost glanced at the advancing cats. “We have to escape this place.” 
“How?” Rootspring glanced around,fearglittering in his eyes.Theforest was alive with cats.They weresurrounded. 
Ashfur’s head was low, like a snake about to strike. His eyes were as blackas night as he guided the spirit cats into a tighter circle around Bristlefrost, Rootspring, and Shadowsight. 
Bristlefrost forced her pelt to stay flat. She could feel every one of her wounds burning, and her limbs felt heavy after the battle they’d already fought. “I’m not sure I can fight themagain,” shewhispered to Rootspring. 
“We don’t have a choice.” Rootspring lodged his shouldermorefirmly beneath Shadowsight’s. 
The dazed medicine cat seemed unaware of the danger. How could they protect him and themselves at the same time? Bristlefrost moved closerto Rootspring.She dared not look at him, her heart breaking at the thought that he might die. Perhaps I can give him enough time to escape, she hoped desperately. 
Suddenly, a white pelt flashed through the shadows, moving like lightning fromamong the spirit cats. It streaked toward Ashfur. 
Bristlefrost stared at the scarred tom, her eyes widening with surprise.“Snowtuft!” 
The white warrior lunged at Ashfur, crashing into him like a Twoleg monster smashing into carrion on the Thunderpath.Staggering backward,Ashfurslammed against a tree. His eyes flashed with surprise. Then rage returned to light theblackness oncemore. 
As it did, the spirit cats stopped in their tracks. They stared, surprised to be free again. Softpelt and Dappletuft blinked at each other. Sandynose and Strikestone jerked their muzzles around, puzzled. Conefoot scanned the forest as though he’d forgotten wherehewas. 
Snowtuft reared,lashing out at Ashfurwith ayowl.“Run whileyou can!” hecalled to thespirit cats. 
Ashfurbatted himback.“Stop them!” 
On his command, the DarkForest warriors turned on the spirit cats once more as they began to flee. Softpelt dodged past a tabby tom. Conefoot leaped over a gray she-cat, twisting neatly out of reach of her claws as she leaped to stop him. 
Bristlefrost stared at the jumble of pelts. Would they manage to escape this time? “Should we help them to get away?” Sheglanced at Rootspring. 
“We can’t risk it,” he told her. “We have to get Shadowsight out of here.” He began guiding the medicine cat away fromthechaos. 
She hurried after him and pressed in beside Shadowsight. The medicine cat limped between them, staring blankly ahead.At least he could put one pawin front of the other. Her ears flinched against the battle sounds behind her. Please let them escape. Were the spirit cats any match for the powerful Dark Forest warriors? And what about Snowtuft? The white tomhad been reckless to takeon Ashfur directly. But his attack had let them escape, and gratitude fought grief as Bristlefrost wondered what would happen to him. 
An agonized shriek rose above the other yowls. The darktrees seemed to tremble as it split the air.Bristlefrost felt sick. Was that Snowtuft’s dying wail? As she tried to block the thought out, paw steps thrummed behind them. She snapped her muzzle around, glancing fearfully over her shoulder. Had Ashfur sent a patrol after them already? She tried to quicken their pace. “Ithinkthey’re chasing us,” she whispered. 
Rootspring was already looking back, his ears pricked nervously. She saw fur lift along his spine and unsheathed her claws, preparing to fight. Arching her back, she snarled as she sawStemleaf darting toward her. Rootspring lined up beside her, flattening his ears threateningly. Bristlefrost didn’t want to hurt her former Clanmate or the skinny black tomwho was racing at his side. She knew they wouldn’t be attacking ifthey had achoice. 
The blacktompulled up afewtail-lengths away.Stemleaf 
slithered to a halt beside him. “It’s okay,” he mewed. “He’s not controlling us.” 
Bristlefrost eyed the two cats. Was Stemleaf telling the truth? Rootspring was scanning the forest around them warily,as though wondering thesamething. 
The skinny black tomstared anxiously at Shadowsight, who was shaking his head as though trying to get waterout ofhis ears.“Is hehurt?” 
“He’s just dazed.” Bristlefrost shifted herpaws uneasily. Was this atrap? 
“Do Iknowyou?” Rootspring frowned at theskinny tom as though hevaguely recognized him. 
Shadowsight lifted his muzzle and blinked at the black tom.His eyes cleared.“Spiresight!” 
Spiresight padded closer.“Areyou okay?” 
Shadowsight shook out his pelt. “There’s some ringing in my ears now, and I feel a little dizzy, but that’s all.” He looked at Spiresight and broke into a purr. “It’s good to see you.” He nuzzled the skinny tomaffectionately. “Did Ashfur hurt you?” 
“No,” Spiresight assured him,purring in return. 
Bristlefrost’s chest tightened. She knew that Shadowsight had been named for Spiresight, the city cat who’d saved his life when Tigerheart and his family returned to ShadowClan’s lake territory. And Spiresight’s spirit had nurtured Shadowsight when he was recovering from the impostor’s attempt to kill him. The warmth of the two toms’ reunion touched her. Even in this dark place, friendship and loyalty could endure.She glanced at Stemleaf.His eyes were bright. Her shoulders loosened. These cats weren’t being controlled by Ashfur. 
Rootspring swished his tail.“Weshould keep moving.” 
Bristlefrost nodded. “It won’t be long before Ashfur sends a search patrol.” She led the way, following a trail of flattened earth between the trees. She glanced back, anxiety rippling through her fur as she noticed Shadowsight swaying. Spiresight stepped in to steady him with his shoulder, but it was clear from the medicine cat’s faltering steps that the blowto his head was stillaffecting him. 
Rootspring fellin beside her.“Whereareweheading?” 
Bristlefrost kept hervoicelow.“Wehaveto get you back to the living world. Shadowsight isn’t fit to be in such a dangerous place.” Sheglanced at Rootspring’s bloodstained pelt. There was a scratch beneath his eye, and one of his ears was torn.Neither are you. “There are too many enemies here,” shemewed.“Weneed to get help.” 
Shadowsight nodded. “But it won’t be easy. You were dragged herein yourbody,which means you can’t just wake up in the living world, like we could. Squirrelflight and Bramblestar were able to escape back through the Moonpool—maybeyou could do thesame.” 
“Great. Do you know how to get to the Moonpool? I mean, how do we find it fromthe Dark Forest?” Rootspring blinked at herhopefully. 
Bristlefrost’s pelt rippled along her spine. She had no idea. 
“I think I know how we might get Stemleaf and Spiresight out of here.” Shadowsight’s mew took her by surprise. 
Shepricked herears.“How?” 
“There’s a path from the Dark Forest to StarClan,” Shadowsight explained. “Stemleaf and Spiresight might be ableto useit to get backto wherethey belong.” 
“Whereis it?” Bristlefrost asked eagerly. 
“It’s near the edge of the Dark Forest,” Shadowsight explained. “Ifound it the first time Iwas here. It was blocked by branches, but if we can unblock it, Stemleaf and Spiresight might be able to get through, and then perhaps the other spirit cats can escape that way, and then Ashfur wouldn’t have so much power… .” His mew trailed away. Was he sure about this, Bristlefrost wondered, or was he just hoping? 
Rootspring was looking doubtfully at the medicine cat, too.“Ithought yourfirst visit herewas in yourdreams?” 
Shadowsight looked puzzled, as though he didn’t understand why Rootspring was asking.“So?” 
“So, how can you be sure that this blocked entrance is real?” Rootspring pressed. 
“Just because it was a dream doesn’t mean I wasn’t here.” Shadowsight looked from Rootspring to Bristlefrost. “You’re here,right?” 
“I’m here here—I was dragged through the Moonpool by Willowshine, remember. My body is here. But even for you,this isn’t adream,” Rootspring reminded him. 
“You’re right,” Shadowsight answered tartly. “This is just a forest fullofdead cats.” 
Rootspring’s pelt ruffled. 
Bristlefrost flicked her tail. “I think we can all agree that nothing about the DarkForest is simple.” Shewanted to find the mound of tangled branches. “It doesn’t matter how we got here—we’re here now, and I think we should find this blocked entrance.” Surely it would be better than stumbling around looking foraway to theMoonpool. 
She hung back and let Shadowsight take the lead, then followed with Rootspring. 
His pelt was still ruffled. “I just hope he knows where he’s going,” he whispered in Bristlefrost’s ear. 
“Wehave to trust him,” shewhispered back. 
Shadowsight followed the trail of trodden earth until it forked,and paused.Hehesitated,then tookthe path that led uphill.With only treetrunks and shadows to markthe way,it was hard to tell how far they’d come. Shadowsight seemed tentative as he led them along a twisting route, and Bristlefrost began to worry that they were traveling in circles. The only thing she could be sure of was that more and more streams ofcrow-blackwaterwerecrisscrossing the forest floor. 
“Does he really know where this entrance is?” Stemleaf whispered frombehind. 
Bristlefrost glanced back at the white-and-ginger tom. “Give him space,” she whispered. “I’m sure he’ll find the way.” She hoped she was right. Peering ahead, past Shadowsight and Spiresight, she saw dense fog pressing between the trees. Shadowsight halted as he reached it. Cautiously, he poked a paw into the murky cloud; then he snatched it out quickly.“It’s freezing.” 
“It marks the edge of the Dark Forest,” Spiresight told him. 
Bristlefrost stopped beside them. “Can’t we go through it?” 
“There’s nothing beyond,” Spiresight explained. “Just fog.” He narrowed his eyes. “But I’ve never seen it reach this deep into theforest before.” 
Shadowsight edged backward as the fog brushed his muzzle.“It’s closing in.” 
Spiresight glanced around nervously.“Is theDarkForest shrinking?” 
Bristlefrost lifted hertail.“Let’s try anotherroute.” 
Stemleaf shifted his paws and glanced at the medicine cat.“You do knowwhich way to go,don’t you?” 
Shadowsight tasted the air. “It’s hard to tell,” he mewed. “But if we keep going, I’m sure I’ll recognize something soon.” 
Bristlefrost whisked her tail. “The path to StarClan must be somewhere,” she mewed, trying to sound hopeful. But she wasn’t sure what would happen if they did find the entrance. Shadowsight had said it was blocked. If Stemleaf and Spiresight could get through, there wouldn’t be so many spirit cats trapped in the Dark Forest. But they couldn’t just wait here for Ashfur and his followers to track themdown. “Come on.” She turned away fromthe fog and nodded Shadowsight into the lead once more. “Let’s try this way.” 
She fell in beside Rootspring, following the others as they retraced their steps. “Do you think the Dark Forest is really shrinking?” shewhispered. 
“I’m afraid it is,” Rootspring answered. “Snowtuft told meas much,when hewas helping me.” 
Bristlefrost pressed backa shiver. Ifthe DarkForest was disappearing, would they disappear along with it? Spiresight’s words fromamoment ago camebackto hernow. There’s nothing beyond. She tried not to think about what that could possibly be like. Instead she told herself that Shadowsight would find the way to StarClan. When he did, they would workout what to do next. 
Ahead, a streamof dark water showed among the trees. 
It was wider than the others and crossed their path. Shadowsight hopped over it and the rest of themfollowed. Bristlefrost glanced down as she jumped it. Her belly tightened. The water was so black that it didn’t even show herreflection. 
“This water’s strange,” she whispered to Rootspring as shelanded. 
“Keep yourpaws clearofit,” Rootspring warned her. 
Bristlefrost stiffened.“Why?” 
“I fell in last time I was here,” he told her. “It felt like it was draining my strength.IthinkIwas lucky to survive.” 
Bristlefrost stopped,alarmed,and stared at him,hereyes pricking with grief. How many times had Rootspring come closeto dying in this dreadfulplace? 
He paused beside her. “In the fight back there”—he glanced the way they’d come—“I thought I was going to die. And allI could think of was you.” His eyes shone with love. “I was so glad to see you—not just because you saved me, but because the thought of never seeing you again seemed worsethan death.” 
It felt as if her heart swelled in her chest untilshe could barely speak.“I’mglad Igot to you in time,” shebreathed. 
He touched his muzzle to hers, then seemed to force himself to break away and begin walking again. She understood; they had work to do. He was limping a little, and as she noticed again his torn and bloody pelt, anxiety flashed through her. She couldn’t ever lose him. He meant too much to her. The thought made her breathless with fear. At least the bloodstains had dried and no fresh blood was oozing fromhis cuts. 
Shehurried afterhim.“Do yourscratches stillhurt?” 
Heshrugged.“Alittle.” 
Sheguessed hewas being brave. 
“I’llbeokay,” hetold her. 
She moved closer, letting herpelt brush his. Here, where they faced so much danger, it didn’t matter that they were fromdifferent Clans.Along with Shadowsight,they were the only living cats in the Dark Forest, and all they had right now was each other. They walked in silence for a while as Shadowsight led themalong first one trailand then another. Fog seemed to hem them in more and more, and the dark streams seemed to be a little wider each time they crossed one. 
The silence felt eerie. A forest without birds made her paws prick uneasily. But at least the silence was better than the shriek of battle. Bristlefrost remembered the screech she’d heard as they’d fled Ashfur and the DarkForest cats. Sheshuddered. 
Rootspring glanced at her.“What’s wrong?” 
She kept her gaze ahead. “Do you think Snowtuft is dead?” 
Rootspring hesitated. “Idon’t thinkAshfurwould spare any cat who challenged his authority.” His ears twitched 
nervously. 
“So you thinkAshfurkilled him?” 
Rootspring avoided hergaze.“Iwanted to get himout of this place,” hemewed quietly.“He saved memorethan once. He didn’t deserve to be here anymore. I kind of hoped he’d be given aplacein StarClan.” 
Bristlefrost moved closer, pressing her flank against his. “Ifheis dead,hedied atruewarrior’s death,” shemurmured. 
Ahead,Shadowsight and Spiresight were heading overa rise. Stemleaf turned and waited for Bristlefrost and Rootspring to catch up. As he watched them, Bristlefrost was suddenly aware how close she was walking to Rootspring,and quickly pulled away. 
Stemleaf’s whiskers twitched with amusement. “Don’t act coolfor me,” he mewed. “I thinkit’s cute how close you two have become.” When Stemleaf had died, she and Rootspring had hardly even been friends. He sidled up beside them as they followed Shadowsight and Spiresight over the rise and glanced mischievously at Bristlefrost. “I guess you’reoveryourcrush on me.” 
Bristlefrost’s ears grew hot. “That was moons ago,” she mumbled. 
“I know.” Stemleaf nudged her with his shoulder. “I’m just teasing.” He turned to Rootspring. “But it seems like you’remates now.” 
“We’renot mates,” Bristlefrost mewed quickly. 
Rootspring moved closer, letting their pelts brush once more.“Weloveeach other,” hetold Stemleafsimply.“But we loveourClans too.” 
“Really?” Stemleaf looked surprised. “Spotfur was the brightest part of my life.” He gazed ahead thoughtfully. “Since Idied,I’ve been surerofthat than ever. Iknowit was easy forus to be together, but Ithinkthat ifshe’d belonged to anotherClan,Iwould havechosen her.” 
Bristlefrost blinked at him, surprised. “You’d have given up ThunderClan?” 
He shrugged. “Clans have many warriors, but you only loveonecat.” 
Bristlefrost looked away,herchest tightening.Fora long time, she’d been determined to choose her Clan over Rootspring. Could Stemleaftellshe was having doubts? She felt Rootspring’s pelt, warmagainst her, and wondered if he was thinking thesamething. 
Ahead, the trees were beginning to thin. A wide, dark stream lay at the bottom of a slope. It didn’t tumble or chatter like a stream in the living forest but spread silently across the forest floor like a pool of blood. Bristlefrost pressed back a shudder and hurried after Shadowsight and Spiresight as they stopped at theedge. 
Shadowsight gazed across the dark water. On the other side, blackened tree stumps stuck up from the earth like claws. “I think we’re heading in the right direction,” the medicine cat mewed. “I saw this hollow in my dream.” He glanced at thestream.“But this wasn’t herethen.” 
“Why is the Dark Forest changing?” Spiresight wondered. 
“It must be something to do with Ashfur.” Shadowsight leaned down and sniffed thewater. 
Stemleaf shivered. “I just hope we can get out before there’s so much fog and waterthat there’s no path left.” 
“Let’s cross this stream and find the entrance to StarClan.” Bristlefrost lifted her chin. They didn’t have time to worry about what might happen. Perhaps they would be able to get Spiresight and Stemleaf back where they belonged. She leaped the stream, trying not to look down, and stumbled as shelanded. 
“Look out!” Rootspring darted forward, teetering at the faredge,his eyes widewith panic. 
She snapped herhead around and sawhertailskimming the water. With a gasp,she flicked it up. She was sure she’d leaped far enough to clear it. How fast was the dark water rising? “Quick!” She beckoned the others overwith a jerkof hermuzzle. 
As Stemleaf and Spiresight leaped the stream, Rootspring hung back. Shadowsight hesitated at the edge. Was hestilldazed? 
“You can do it,” Bristlefrost called across thewater. 
“Just becarefulnot to touch it,” Rootspring warned. 
Shadowsight tensed, bunching his muscles as he prepared to jump. Narrowing his eyes,he leaped and cleared the streamwithhis forepaws. But as one hindpaw reached dry land, he seemed to lose his balance, wobbling as he landed so that his trailing pawsplashed into thewater. 
Bristlefrost gasped. As quick as a flash, she snatched Shadowsight’s scruff between her teeth and hauled him clear.She let go and sniffed his hind leg,relieved to find that it was only wet. 
Rootspring jumped afterhimand landed beside them,his pelt spiked.“Areyou okay?” 
“I’m fine.” Shadowsight shook the water from his hind paw. His pelt rippled self-consciously as he padded up the slope. Spiresight followed, catching up and staying close. Stemleaf glanced uneasily at Bristlefrost, then hurried after them. 
Bristlefrost looked back at the stream. She was sure it had spread even further across the forest floor. Foreboding pricked beneath her pelt. The dark water was definitely rising.“Ihopewefind the entrancesoon,” shemewed. 
Rootspring folded his tailacross herspine. “We will,” he promised,and Bristlefrost hoped he was right. 
Shadowsight, Spiresight, and Stemleaf had stopped at the top ofthe rise. Bristlefrost slowed as she sawStemleaf’s pelt lift along his spine. Shadowsight’s ears were twitching. 
What had they seen? Bristlefrost hurried to catch up, wary as a familiar scent touched her nose. RiverClan? She stopped at the top, her paws pricking in surprise. A familiar cat was standing between the blackened treestumps. 
It was Willowshine. 
Bristlefrost’s hackles lifted. Was the dead RiverClan medicine cat still under Ashfur’s control? She scanned the shadows behind her, half expecting to see eyes gleaming in the darkness as a patrolof DarkForest warriors prepared an ambush, but nothing was there. She tasted the air. Willowshinewas alone. 
“It’s okay.” Willowshine seemed to sense her fear. “Ashfur’s not controlling me.” 
Rootspring narrowed his eyes at the RiverClan medicine cat.“You’velied about that before,” hegrowled. 
“That wasn’t me.” She stared at the yellow tom with clear,bright eyes. 
Bristlefrost studied hercautiously. There was no sign of the malice Bristlefrost had seen in the cats Ashfur had been controlling in battle. “I think she’s telling the truth,” she whispered to Rootspring. 
“Iam.” Willowshinewhisked hertail.“Ipromise.” 
Rootspring padded closer and sniffed; then, apparently satisfied,hedipped his head.“Howdid you get free?” 
“I ran away when Snowtuft attacked Ashfur,” she told him. “His control seems to be stronger over medicine cats, but usually, Ashfur can’t force cats to do his bidding when he’s not closeto them.” 
Bristlefrost’s tail twitched nervously. “Did you see what happened to Snowtuft?” she asked, dread weighing like a stonein herchest. 
Willowshine’s gaze darkened. “Ashfur broke his neck,” shemewed bleakly.“I’msorry to say that he’s dead.” 
Bristlefrost felt sick. 
Rootspring stiffened. “He deserved to make it to StarClan.” Bitterness edged his mew. “Nowhe won’t exist at all,not even here.” 
“He’ll exist for us,” Bristlefrost mewed softly. “We’ll rememberhim,even ifheisn’t in StarClan.” 
Rootspring looked suddenly weary, his bloodstained pelt dulland ragged. 
Pity stabbed Bristlefrost’s heart. “Can you check Rootspring’s wounds?” she asked Willowshine. She sat down, aware of the sting of her own injuries, of her aching muscles. She wasn’t sure it was wise to stop here, but she knew she wasn’t the only cat who needed to catch their breath. 
Willowshine sniffed Rootspring’s pelt, pausing at every clawscratch and bite markto examine it. Then she looked at Spiresight. “Iknowthere are no herbs here to treat wounds, but have you seen any moss? I can at least clean some of the blood away.” 
Spiresight got to his paws. “I’ll look for some.” As he hurried away to search cracks and crevices in the tree trunks, Stemleaf began to tend to his own cuts and scratches,washing themthoroughly.Shadowsight rested on his belly and, tucking his paws under him, closed his eyes foramoment. 
Willowshine glanced at him anxiously. “You shouldn’t sleep here,” she advised, sniffing behind his ear. Even Bristlefrost could see swelling there. “You might not be able to wake up.” Willowshine looked into Shadowsight’s eyes as heopened them.“Areyou feeling dizzy?” 
“Alittle,” Shadowsight told her. 
Willowshine’s gaze flicked to the tip of Bristlefrost’s ear, where Bristlefrost could feel stinging. “You look like you could do with treatment too. That was a vicious battle. You three ought to get back to the living forest so you can get somepropercare.” 
I wish it were that easy. Bristlefrost’s tail twitched irritably as theRiverClan medicinecat went on. 
“Idon’t knowwhy you thought you could fight the Dark Forest cats alone.” 
“It’s not like wehad achoice,” Bristlefrost snapped. 
Spiresight padded fromthe shadows and dropped a wad of damp moss at Willowshine’s paws. “That’s all I can find, but at least it looks clean,” hemewed. 
“Thank you.” Willowshine dipped her head, picked up the moss between her jaws, and began to press it into the deepest wound on Rootspring’s flank. Rootspring grimaced but made no sound. 
Bristlefrost was stillsmarting fromWillowshine’s words. “We’ve been trying to find the entrance to StarClan so we can get Stemleafand Spiresight backthere.” 
“It’s blocked,” Willowshine mewed. She didn’t look up fromherwork. 
Bristlefrost blinked. “Do you know where it is?” she asked,surprised. 
Willowshine jerked her muzzle toward the shadows beyond the treestumps.“That way.” 
The medicine cat sounded so sure. Bristlefrost felt suddenly hopefulagain.“Howdo you know?” 
“I just feel it.” Willowshine shrugged. “It’s like StarClan is pulling me toward them.” She blinked at Stemleaf and Spiresight.“Can’t you feelit?” 
Stemleaf frowned as though concentrating. Then his eyes widened. “Yes!” He sounded surprised. “I hadn’t noticed it before,but Ido now….It’s likeatug in my chest.” 
Spiresight padded a few steps between the stumps and stared toward the shadows where Willowshine had pointed. “I feel something,” he mewed. “Like a longing …” His mew trailed away. 
“That’s it.” Willowshine sat back on her haunches and brushed away a fewcrumbs ofmoss caught in Rootspring’s pelt.“Wejust need to followthat feeling.” 
Bristlefrost felt hope rising in her chest once more. “Then let’s go.” She got to her paws and started to head toward the shadows. 
Willowshine slid past her. “I’ll show you the way,” she mewed. 
Bristlefrost was happy to let the medicine cat take the lead. She felt tired despite the brief rest, and her wounds were throbbing. Shadowsight hurried after the RiverClan medicine cat, and as Spiresight and Stemleaf followed, Bristlefrost caught up to Rootspring. 
“Did the moss help?” sheasked. 
“Kind of.” Rootspring shrugged, and Bristlefrost guessed he must stillbein pain.Shewanted to get himhome as soon as possible so that Frecklewish could give him herbs that would makehimfeelbetter. 
Willowshine led them up a rocky hillside and onto a narrow ledge, which they followed around a cliff where overhanging trees reached forthemwith dangling branches. Bristlefrost shuddered as twigs scraped her spine and was relieved when the ledge opened onto another rocky slope. She scrambled down it after the others, one eye on Rootspring,who winced as he fought to keep his footing on the slippery gravel. The slope flattened onto marshy ground where rivulets of dark water twined between muddy hummocks. Bristlefrost fought backfearas the group picked its way frommound to mound,carefulnot to let a pawortail slip into the streams. Her pelt smoothed with relief as more levelground cameinto viewin the forest beyond. 
They followed a narrow path through a wall of twisted brambles, the prickles scratching Bristlefrost’s pelt as she padded after the others. On the far side a large, gnarled tree sprouted among slenderbeeches. Shadowsight lifted his tail excitedly. “Irememberthis place. The entrance to StarClan is this way!” He broke into a run. Bristlefrost’s belly sparked with alarmas he disappeared into theshadows. 
“Wait!” She quickened her step, signaling to the others with a flick of her tail to keep up. But Stemleaf was already racing after the ShadowClan medicine cat. As Bristlefrost caught up to them, she saw among the shadows a wall of branches piled between the trees. They were woven tightly togetherwith vines,twisted togetherlikea swarmofsnakes. 
Stemleaf stared at it, his eyes wide. Spiresight began to sniffanxiously at thevines. 
Bristlefrost padded closer.“Does this lead to StarClan?” 
“Yes,” Willowshine mewed heavily. “At least, I guess it used to.” 
Rootspring stopped beside Bristlefrost. His ears were pricked.Hefrowned.“Can you hearavoice?” 
Bristlefrost looked at him. His ears swiveled toward the entrance. She strained to hear, listening for a sound from among the twisted branches, but heard nothing except the eerie silence oftheDarkForest. 
Willowshine poked a vine with a paw. “How in StarClan did Ashfurmanageto weavethis shut?” 
“I’m not sure.” Shadowsight stood back and looked thoughtful. “But it looks way more tangled than it was in my dreams. It’s like the vines and branches have knotted togethereven moretightly.” 
Stemleaf’s pelt pricked nervously. “How can we get through?” 
“It looks likewe’restuckhere.” Spiresight’s taildrooped. 
“When Ashfurfinds us,he’llcontrolus again.” Stemleaf shuddered. “It feels like drowning and there’s nothing we can do to stop it.” He looked at Bristlefrost with round eyes. “There’s no way to fight it,” hemewed. 
Bristlefrost whisked her tail. This couldn’t be the end. The living Clans weredepending on them,thespirit cats too. “There has to be a way,” she told him. “We need to defeat Ashfur for good.” She wasn’t going to let Stemleaf despair. “Thinkofyourkits.” 
“My kits?” Stemleafblinked at her. 
Doesn’t he know? Bristlefrost had assumed a StarClan cat would know everything. But then she remembered, StarClan hadn’t communicated with the living cats in a long time—and Stemleafwasn’t aStarClan cat.At least,not yet. 
“Spotfur is carrying your kits,” she explained. “She’ll need you to watch overthem.” 
“I’m going to have kits?” Stemleaf’s whiskers were twitching excitedly.“Really?” 
“Yes.” Bristlefrost felt a glimmer of hope. His excitement was infectious. 
Rootspring shifted beside her. “You can’t let themgrow up in aforest destroyed by Ashfur,” hemewed. 
Stemleaf lifted his chin. “You’re right. I can’t let that happen. I’ll do anything to protect them. I’ll stop Ashfur, whateverit takes.” 
As he spoke,a vine in the tangles blocking the entrance seemed to loosen from the branch it was smothering. Slipping suddenly, it snapped, and the branch bulged from the barrier,straining at therest ofits bonds. 
Bristlefrost’s breath caught in herthroat. “Is that a good omen?” 
Shadowsight hurried closer to the barrier and sniffed it. “I think it may be more than a good omen.” He faced the group. “This place is fulloffear,rage and spite. It thrives on dark energy.” He looked at Bristlefrost. “The only way I could get here was to feelangry and frightened. Ihad to feel hopeless.” 
Bristlefrost narrowed her eyes thoughtfully. Was that how the Sisters had helped them find their way here? By attuning their emotions to match the energy of the Dark Forest? 
Shadowsight went on.“Ihad to workhard to make sure I never lost sight of myself, so that those dark emotions couldn’t takemeoverentirely.” 
Of course! When they’d brought her here, the Sisters had shown her how to center herself so that there was always a place inside her heart that the Dark Forest could not reach, a part of herself that would remain safe from its influence. 
Rootspring curled his claws into the earth. “I hadn’t thought about it before, but you’re right,” he told Shadowsight. “It’s the same when I connect with dead spirits. I have to anchor myself to the earth to stop me slipping entirely into theirworld.” 
Shadowsight began to pace eagerly in front of the barrier. “Ashfur never centered himself or tried to protect any part of himself from his darkest thoughts. He let them grow.Heencouraged themuntilthey possessed himentirely. And now he’s so in tune with the Dark Forest that he can shapeit to his will.” 
Bristlefrost’s pelt was tingling with excitement. “But if he can shape it, so can we!” She nodded toward the snapped vine. It was withering. “Lookwhat happened when Stemleaf decided Ashfur could be stopped. He began to hope, and that vinesnapped.” 
Rootspring swished his tail. “Here, hope is our greatest strength.” 
“It might beouronly strength,” Spiresight mewed darkly. 
“If it is, we have to make the most of it.” Bristlefrost darted forward and hooked her forepaws around a vine. Tugging it, she yowled out loud. “StarClan is still with us,” shemewed.“And we’regoing to reach them.” 
Willowshine grabbed another vine and pulled. “I know I’ll get to StarClan,” she yowled. “I’ll see my ancestors again.” 
“I’llwatch my kits growup!” Stemleafsankhis teeth into a thick tendril and jerked it away from the branch it was holding. Rootspring grunted as he freed a bunch of knotted sticks. 
Bristlefrost felt the vine between her paws give a little. “It’s working!” Hope was surging beneath herpelt now. But time was running out. Untangling the barrier was going to take ages—farlongerthan they had. IfAshfurand his allies didn’t find them first, the fog and dark water that were swallowing the Dark Forest would overwhelmthem. She let go of the vine and sat back on her haunches. “It would be quickerifwehad help.” 
Shadowsight paused.“We need morecats,” heagreed. 
Bristlefrost frowned thoughtfully. “Perhaps we could free some of the spirit cats from Ashfur’s control. If we explain to them that StarClan never abandoned us—that they belong in StarClan’s hunting grounds—their hope could open theway to StarClan.” 
“How will you free them?” Willowshine glanced around the group. “None of you look like you’re up to confronting 
Ashfurright now.” 
“Wecouldn’t do it alone,” Stemleafconceded. 
Bristlefrost felt a prickle offrustration,but she knewthat they were right. “We could get help frommore living cats,” shesuggested. 
Rootspring looked at her. “You mean, bring more Clan cats here?” 
Bristlefrost’s heart was pounding. “Well,yes. Afterall,if we can get here,so can others.Wejust haveto find away to let them—” 
“Bristlefrost?Is that you?” 
Bristlefrost jerked around. Someone was calling her name. Had Ashfur or his warriors caught up to them? Hackles rising,shescanned theshadowy forest. 
The voice called again. “Bristlefrost? Are you there?” The voice sounded excited. 
Bristlefrost turned further around, completing a circle, and saw Shadowsight staring at the barrier. His eyes were wide with amazement. 
Willowshinepricked herears.“Leafpool?Is that you?” 
Bristlefrost hurried closer. She’d been an apprentice when Leafpool had died. She remembered the pale tabby she-cat crossing the camp clearing, or nosing her way from the medicine den. She knewfromSquirrelflight that Leafpool had made it into StarClan before they lost communication with the living cats. Was ThunderClan’s formermedicine cat really behind the tangle ofbranches and vines? “Leafpool?” shemewed tentatively. 
“Yes!” Leafpoolsounded delighted.“It’s me!” 
Bristlefrost strained harder to see through the crisscrossed branches. She glimpsed a light brown tabby pelt, and the scent of ThunderClan flooded between the vines. It really was her! This was the first contact any cat had made with StarClan in moons, and the thought that StarClan was so close, even if they couldn’t reach it, made herfurtinglewith excitement.Shepressed harderagainst the barrier, listening for Leafpool’s voice, and felt another vine loosen. 
Stemleaf and Rootspring hurried nearer, their whiskers quivering. 
“What’s happening out there?” Leafpoolcalled. “We’ve heard nothing forso long.Is everything okay?” 
Bristlefrost swapped looks with Rootspring. What should shetelltheStarClan cat? 
“Ashfur took over Bramblestar’s body,” Rootspring called. 
“We knew that cat was up to no good.” Leafpool sounded frustrated.“But how?” 
“He stole it when Bramblestar lost a life,” Bristlefrost explained. 
“We were able to drive Ashfur out,” Shadowsight told her. “Bramblestar has his body back now, but Ashfur has taken overtheDarkForest.He’s trying to hurt theClans.” 
Leafpool didn’t speak, and Bristlefrost guessed the StarClan cat was struggling to takethis allin. 
Willowshine stretched her muzzle closer. “We haven’t been able to reach you for moons,” she mewed. “We thought you’d abandoned us.” 
The barrier trembled. “StarClan would never abandon you!” Leafpoolexclaimed. Bristlefrost felt weakwith reliefas Leafpool went on. “The pool where we watch our loved ones is clogged with vines,just like this tunnel. We’ve been trying to reach you, but with no success. Somehow, by blocking our connection to the Dark Forest, Ashfur has cut us offfromyou….Weshould have realized hewas planning something when he asked to go to the living world to find out why wewerelosing touch with you.Wehad no idea that he would cut us off, or that he wanted to take over Bramblestar’s body!” 
“So Ashfur destroyed our connection with you?” Shadowsight mewed. “By building this barrier between StarClan’s hunting grounds and the DarkForest? The tangle ofvines looks likeit’s getting stronger.” 
“Exactly. He’s the one who dug this entrance in the first place,” Leafpool called through the branches. “He blocked the old one that led through the woods to the Dark Forest. He wanted a connection that only he knew about, one that only he could use.” Leafpool sounded exasperated. “Now we realize that’s because he intended to block it. And because all three worlds are interconnected—the Dark Forest, our hunting grounds, and the living world—it also prevented us from communicating with you. But Ashfur didn’t want StarClan to see what he was doing. We’re trapped in here and there’s no way through. We’ve tried to breakthe barrierdown,but it’s too strong forus.” 
“We have to find a way soon,” Bristlefrost urged. “The DarkForest is disappearing!” 
“That doesn’t surprise me. Things are changing in StarClan,too,” Leafpoolanswered.“Someofourwarriors are starting to feel weak. Their memories of the living world are fading,and they’refading along with them.” 
Bristlefrost pressed back a surge of alarm. “Things are bad here, too. There’s dark water, and fog, and it’s closing in.” She felt her breath hot against the barrier as she leaned closer, waiting to hear Leafpool’s response. But Leafpool was silent. Bristlefrost’s heart was pounding so hard, she wondered if the other cats could hear it. “Are you still there?” 
“I’m here,” Leafpool answered. “I’m afraid Ashfur has upset the balance between the worlds. Light and shadow cannot exist without each other,and nowAshfurhas broken the connection …” She sighed. “I fear things will only get worsein the living world,too.” 
“We can fix it, though, can’t we?” Bristlefrost’s throat felt tight. 
“We have to.” Leafpool’s mew was firm. “It’s time we started to set things right.” 
Bristlefrost rested her cheek against the barrier as renewed relief overwhelmed her. Their ancestors hadn’t abandoned them; StarClan was going to help the living Clans. She hadn’t realized how much moon after moon of being told by Ashfurthat the Clans were being punished for breaking the warrior code had put a chill in her heart. Now she knew it wasn’t true—it had never been true. StarClan was stillon theirside. 
She looked at the other cats and saw hope glistening in their eyes. They were as relieved as she was. Beside them, the vines creaked as they loosened a little more. But the branches were still firmly in place. They would need more help than this to break the barrier between StarClan and the DarkForest. 
She flicked hertaileagerly.“We have to get backand tell the Clans,” she mewed to Rootspring. “If they know that StarClan neverabandoned them,theirhopemight be enough to breakdown this wall.” 
Henodded.“Wehave to get—” 
Before he could finish, Willowshine jerked around, her pelt spiking as she stared into the shadows between the trees. “Ashfur is near,” she breathed. Fear sparked in her eyes.“Ican feelhim.He’s trying to takecontrolofmy mind.” 
Spiresight was backing away, his tailbushed. “Ican feel it too.” 
Stemleaf frowned. “Are you sure? I can’t sense anything.” 
“Willowshine told us that shethinks medicine cats might be moresensitiveto his control,” Shadowsight mewed. 
Leafpoolcalled through thebarrier.“Quick!You must get away.” 
Willowshine’s tailtrembled. “Let’s go before he gets any closer.” 
Spiresight blinked at Shadowsight.“Comeon.” 
Shadowsight dipped his head. “You’ll be faster without me,” he mewed. “I’mstilla little dizzy. Besides, Ashfurcan’t controltheminds ofliving cats.” 
“He can stillhurt you,” Spiresight warned. 
Stemleaf’s pelt ruffled along his spine. “I can sense Ashfur. He must be getting closer.” He backed away. “We shouldn’t be near any living cat. If Ashfur takes over our minds again,we’lltry to attackyou.” 
Bristlefrost felt an ache of pity for the white-and-orange tom. She couldn’t imagine what it would be like to be forced to attackherClanmates.“Okay.You’d bettergo.” She turned to Shadowsight.“You should leave,too.Go anotherway.” 
Heblinked at her.“On my own?” 
Shenodded.It would be saferforallofthem. 
Shadowsight’s eyes glittered with fear.“What about you and Rootspring?” 
“We’ll divert Ashfur to give you time to escape.” She met Rootspring’s gaze.“Okay?” 
“Okay.” Rootspring nodded. 
“It’s up to you now, Shadowsight—can you try to wake up?” sheasked hopefully. 
Shadowsight shook his head. “I’mnot sure.” He closed his eyes tight, and Bristlefrost watched as his forehead wrinkled in concentration. She held her breath, waiting for the small gray tom to fade as he awoke by the Moonpool. But nothing happened. 
Aftera fewmoments,he opened his eyes. “Ican’t do it,” he mewed sadly. “Something is different … maybe because the Sisters helped us in.” 
Bristlefrost tried to hide herdisappointment.This will be harder, then. “You have to go out like Bramblestar and Squirrelflight, then. Can find your way back to the Moonpool?” sheasked. 
The medicine cat glanced nervously between the trees. “I…” 
Rootspring stepped forward. “When Ifellthrough,there was a gnarled tree,” he explained. “And the light was odd, reflected through thewaterabove.” 
Shadowsight nodded. “That sounds like enough for me to lookfor.I’msureIcan find it.I’llhaveto.” 
“Good.” Bristlefrost spoke quickly. “Thank you, Shadowsight.Get backto the living Clans and tellthemwhat Leafpool said. Tell themthat we need help dismantling this barrier.” She called through the branches to Leafpool.“We’ll let the Clans know that you’re still on their side,” she promised. 
“Stay safe,” Leafpoolmewed back. 
“Be as quickas you can,” Bristlefrost told Shadowsight. “If the Dark Forest is shrinking, then there isn’t much time. Beforelong wemight not be ableto reach this place again.” 
Shadowsight nodded and,without anotherword,slipped away into theshadowy forest. 
Stemleaf paced anxiously. “I can hear paw steps,” he mewed. 
“Quick, go!” Bristlefrost told him. She could hear them too. 
Willowshine hesitated. “Will you be all right?” she asked. 
“We have to be,” Bristlefrost told her. “The Clans are depending on us.” As the three spirit cats disappeared between the trees, she glanced at Rootspring. “We should split up too,” shetold him. 
His eyes widened. “Wouldn’t it be safer if we stayed together?” 
“The more trails we leave,the harderit willbe forAshfur to find us.” Bristlefrost scanned the shadows, her heart pounding. “One of us has to survive. We’ll have more of a 
chanceifweseparate.” 
Rootspring’s pelt spiked.“Ican’t leaveyou.” 
Bristlefrost could hear the rustling of the twisted brambles getting closer. “There’s no time to discuss it. You head that way.” She nodded toward the shadows beside the barrier. “I’ll go this way.” Before he could argue, she touched her muzzle quickly to his. “We’ll meet back here once we lose Ashfur.” Her chest pricked with fear as she hurried away, breaking into a run as angry growls sounded behind her.Please let Rootspring be okay. What ifhe didn’t make it back to the barrier? Her belly tightened. What if I don’t make it back? What if the dark water rose so much there was no way to get back? She could see thin streams cutting between the trees. If the Dark Forest flooded completely,they would neverbeableto freeStarClan. 
She pushed the thought away. She could not let herself despair. Hope was her only weapon here, and she had to cling to it no matterwhat. 


Chapter 
4 


Rootspring pulled up sharply, sending leaves fluttering as he slid to a halt. Pricking his ears, he peered back the way he’d run, straining to see any sign ofAshfur’s patrol. Relief washed his pelt. He thought he’d lost them, but he tasted the air anyway just to be sure. His shoulders loosened. The only scents here were the musty odorofdecay and the sour tang oftheblood dried into his fur. 
He crouched low, his flanks heaving, his paws hot. He was breathless fromthe chase. Twice he’d thought Ashfur’s warriors would catch him as he led them away from the StarClan barrier. The first time, he’d hit a stretch of rough ground dotted with pools of dark water. He’d dodged around the water,carefulnot to get his paws wet. The patrol chasing him had split up and tried to cut him off, but he’d given them the slip, leaping the last two pools and diving into a patch of nettles before switching course. It had thrown them off only for a few moments; they were on his tail again by the time he reached a rocky gully that cut the forest in two. He’d led them along it, his muscles burning with the effort. Panic had clutched his chest until he felt he could hardly breathe. But he’d known that, with every paw step, he was leading themfarther fromthe barrier andfrom Bristlefrost. 
Bristlefrost. He hoped he had drawn offalltheirpursuers and she was clear of danger by now. Perhaps she’d even made it back to the barrier and was waiting for him there already. Please let her be safe. His belly tightened. What if she didn’t make it? What if he never saw her again? No! He pushed the thought away. Ican’t think like that. It hurt too much. 
The second time they’d nearly caught him, he’d been scrabbling out ofthe gully. As he’d hauled himselfup a wall of crumbling earth and rock, he’d felt claws hook his tail. He’d ripped free, but a tail-length from the top, the ledge he’d scrambled onto had collapsed. As it dropped away beneath him, he’d grabbed the cliff top and dangled for a moment by a single claw. Terror had flared through every hair of his pelt, but he’d made it, pulling himself up and collapsing at the top while he watched Ashfur’s patrolpace angrily beneath,unableto follow. 
He hadn’t stopped running since then, crossing damp earth where he could so the ranksmellwould hide his scent, doubling backevery so often to confuse the trail. And now he was surehemust havelost theDarkForest warriors. 
He caught his breath and let it slow, forcing his pelt to smooth.As his panic eased,hebecame aware ofhis wounds once more. Fresh blood was welling on his shoulderwhere a scratch had reopened. He turned to lick it, wincing at the sting. 
Rootspring. 
He froze as he heard someone call his name. Slowly, careful not to shift the leaves, he stretched up and craned his neck to peer around. The trees were slender here, their narrow trunks hard to hide behind, and there was no undergrowth but creeping weeds,which wound around their roots. He couldn’t see any cat. But he’d definitely heard his name. Had Ashfur’s patroltracked himdown? He tasted the airagain and smelled nothing new. 
Nervously, Rootspring began to pick his way between the trees,hardly breathing in casehegavehimselfaway. 
The voice sounded again. 
Rootspring. 
This time, he answered. “Who are you?” He scanned the forest again, uneasy as he saw no sign of life. He swallowed back fear. “What are you?” Whatever it was, it was tracking him, and being stalked by something in the DarkForest couldn’t begood. 
Rootspring. 
The voice was inside his head. Hadn’t Bramblestar’s spirit spoken to himlike this beside the lake—calling to him inside his mind? He’d thought he had bees in his brain until he’d realized who it was, and even then he hadn’t trusted the ghost as it had trailed himthrough theforest. 
Rootspring. 
But it couldn’t be Bramblestar. The ThunderClan leader was alive and in the living forest with Squirrelflight. His thoughts whirled.Was it Leafpool?But howcould it be?She was trapped behind thebarrier,farfromhere. 
A thought flashed in his mind. Was this what it had felt like for Shadowsight, when Ashfur had spoken to himfrom StarClan? Is this Ashfur who’s trying to reach me the same way? Rootspring felt queasy. The dark warrior might be seeking to influencehim.Or,even worse,possess him. 
Rootspring quickened his step, ignoring the dread pressing in his chest. Just act like you can’t hear it, he told himself. Ashfurcouldn’t take overliving cats, as faras they knew.And Rootspring would neverallowhimto. 
He remembered Dewspring’s advice. If you don’t want to be hunted, become the hunter. His mentor’s words rang in his mind.If you can’t escape your enemy, face them. It would be foolish to face Ashfur right now; Rootspring was outnumbered and in unfamiliar territory, and he’d seen how powerful the dark warrior was. But that didn’t mean he couldn’t find out what Ashfur was up to. It would be better than waiting here, imagining voices and jumping out of his furevery time he heard a noise. Besides,he wanted to know ifit was safeto return to thebarrier.In caseBristlefrost really was waiting forhimthere. 
Rootspring shook out his pelt. He’d retrace his steps and see if he could sneak up on Ashfur and his warriors. If he could find out what Ashfur was planning, he might be able to get one step ahead. He ignored the fear churning in his belly.He would becareful.Hewouldn’t get caught. 
Rootspring headed for the gully, pausing at the top when he reached it and peering down into the bushes and trees clustered at the bottom. There was no sign of Dark Forest warriors, and he found an easy way down and made his way along it,ears pricked forsigns ofdanger. 
Rootspring! 
He stopped as he heard the voice again. He was sure now that it was in his head. There was something soft and almost familiarabout it,and it was growing moreurgent. 
What are you doing? it asked. 
Why was it trying to distract him? Irritation pricked his pelt.It’s none of your business, hethought crossly.Focusing hard on the path and keeping alert for signs of Dark Forest warriors, Rootspring retraced his steps. He kept low as he crossed the open ground, picking his way around the pools ofdarkwater.Did thepaths between themseemnarrower? 
As he reached woodland once more, cat-scents touched his nose. He tasted the air, relieved that the wind was blowing toward him, and recognized Ashfur’s scent and the musky smell of Darkstripe. There were other cat-scents too. He didn’t recognize them all, but they were steeped in the stench of the Dark Forest. He could smell Softpelt and Strikestoneamong them.Disappointment tugged at his belly. At least he couldn’t detect Stemleaf, Willowshine, or Spiresight.They must stillbefree. 
He ducked down as he reached the trees and picked his way toward the scents. His ears twitched as he heard sounds comingfrombeyond athick swath ofbracken. The Dark Forest cats were talking there, their mews grumpy. Stealthily, Rootspring nosed his way among the rotting stems and crept nearer. Belly pressed to the ground, he wriggled as closeas hedared and peered between thestalks. 
In the damp glade ahead, a bedraggled group of spirit cats stared blankly at Ashfur, their eyes showing nothing but blind obedience as he paced in front of them. Rootspring’s heart sankas he sawhis Clanmate Sandynose. The clever brown tom’s gaze was unquestioning. He would havehated what he’d become. 
As Ashfurtalked,Darkstripe’s tailflicked restlessly back and forth. Beside him, the other Dark Forest warriors listened, attentive. Mapleshade sat back on her haunches and licked her belly absently. But her ears were pricked and turned toward the dark warrior. A gray-and-white tabby Rootspring didn’t recognize was flexing his claws as though he couldn’t wait to carry out Ashfur’s orders. 
Ashfurnodded toward a different ragged tom,this one a pale gray tabby. “Silverhawk, take Clawface and guard the Moonpooltree.” 
That’s where Shadowsight was headed. Rootspring tensed. Had the ShadowClan medicine cat managed to find his way backto theliving Clans yet? 
The Dark Forest warrior blinked at Ashfur. “Isn’t it a bit lateto—” 
“Just do it!” Ashfur snapped. “I don’t want any more intruders in my forest.” 
Silverhawk dipped his head and beckoned to a battle.scarredbrown tomwith aflick ofhis tail. Together, the two cats headed away between thetrees. 
Rootspring watched them disappear into the shadows, his heart pounding. Shadowsight had to get news to the Clans. Should he follow the two warriors and make sure the medicine cat made it out safely, if he hadn’t already? He hesitated. Wouldn’t it be better to stay here and find out what Ashfurwas planning? 
“Houndleap.” Ashfur was staring at a scrawny black tom. 
Houndleap returned his gazeeagerly. 
“Take Mapleshade and Rushtooth and search for Rootspring and theothers.” 
Houndleap nodded. 
“And keep an eye out for Stemleaf and his friends.” Ashfur’s lip twitched angrily. “They can’t hide from me forever.” 
Especially if the Dark Forest is shrinking. Rootspring shivered. Ashfur’s gaze flashed toward the bracken. Rootspring pressed himself harder against the earth as the dark warrior narrowed his eyes. Rootspring held his breath. 
Can he see me? 
“Hey.” Mapleshade rolled onto her paws. She stared indignantly at Ashfur. 
He glanced at the tortoiseshell-and-white she-cat, his ears flattening as he saw her expression. “What?” he snapped. 
“Why are you putting him in charge of the patrol?” Mapleshadejerked hermuzzletoward Houndleap. 
Ashfur’s eyes sparked with fury. “Because you let Stemleafescape!” 
Mapleshadeflexed herclaws but said nothing. 
Houndleap slid a superior look at the she-cat. “Don’t worry,Ashfur,” he mewed smoothly. “I won’t let Rootspring get away.” 
The dark warrior glanced at him. “You’d better not,” he snarled. 
Houndleap led the patrol into the woods, Mapleshade glowering as she padded heavily behind. Ashfur headed in the other direction, where the trees thinned and dying bushes lined the path. Darkstripe followed, while the Dark Forest warriors nudged the spirit cats into action. The gray.and-white tabby hissed as Conefoot stumbled,then gavehis captive a sharp nip behind the ear. Conefoot yelped and turned on the DarkForest cat.Hope sparked in Rootspring’s chest as he saw anger flicker for a moment in Conefoot’s eyes,but they glazed overagain and he hurried quickly after Sandynose and the others. Rootspring shifted his paws thoughtfully. Conefoot seemed to throw off Ashfur’s control there for a moment, when he was angry. Does that mean a strong emotion can break his hold? Rootspring wondered. He remembered the vines snapping in the barrier that blocked off StarClan when the surrounding cats felt hope. 
Could hopebethekeyto fighting offAshfur? 
It was afascinating idea,but Rootspring had to focus on getting back to Bristlefrost. He could discuss it with her when they reunited. As soon as they were out of sight, he slid fromthe cover of the bracken and crept after them. The undergrowth here was thick, its rotting leaves hiding the Dark Forest cats from view, but Rootspring followed their paw steps, his ears pricked. He skirted bushes and trees, keeping lowas hetracked theparty downslope. 
“Do you smellsomething?” Darkstripemewed suddenly. 
Rootspring froze. Had the wind changed? Was it carrying his scent toward the Dark Forest cats? He tasted the breeze; no,hewas safe. 
Ashfurgrowled.“Everything stinks in this place.” 
Rootspring heard the undergrowth rustle. His pelt rippled nervously. Was Darkstripe pushing his way through the bushes? He glanced back, dismayed that the slope behindhimwas bare. The undergrowth was the only cover in reach, but where would Darkstripe push through? As it shivered in front of him, Rootspring chose a random spot and ducked under the twisted branches, hoping fervently that he wouldn’t be seen. As Rootspring’s heart pounded, Darkstripe padded into the open a fewtail-lengths away and looked around. The tom’s yellow eyes were narrow with suspicion,but hedidn’t seemto spot Rootspring. 
“You’re imagining things.” Ashfur’s mew sounded from the path. “There’s no cat here. After the shredding we gave them,they wouldn’t darecomewithin striking distance.” 
Darkstripe’s eyes glittered. He glanced around once more,then pushed his way backthrough thebush. 
Rootspring drewin a shuddering breath and waited until he heard the patrol move off. Then he crept out from beneath the bush and began to track them again, this time keeping furtherback. Feargrewin his belly. He tried to push it away,but it hardened and rooted itselfin his chest untilhe could hardly breathe. Around him the bushes grew more scraggly, and as the slope flattened, twisted trunks replaced them,so blackthey looked burnt. 
With a sickening sense of dread, Rootspring realized where he was. Between the trunks, he could see a dark lake stretching beneath the starless sky. This was the island where Ashfur had held him and Squirrelflight hostage. He shuddered as he remembered the soul-aching despair he’d felt when he’d fallen into thelake. 
But there wasn’t an island anymore. There was only water. All that remained of the island was trees, their branches sticking upfromthe lake’s surface like misshapen limbs,theirroots lost in theswallowed earth. 
Rootspring felt his gut twist as his heart pounded faster in his chest. The water was rising even more quickly than he’d feared!It hadn’t been long since he’d been imprisoned there, and yet the entire island had disappeared. How long did they have beforethepath backto theMoonpoolwas cut off by flooding? Or the whole of the Dark Forest disappeared beneath the darkwaters? He had to get himself, Bristlefrost, and the spirit cats out while they still had a chance. 
Ashfur had stopped on the shore. His tail twitched uneasily. “What’s happened here?” He stared at the water. “Thistleclaw,where’s theisland?” 
“Don’t ask me.” The gray-and-white tabby’s gaze narrowed as it flitted like a nervous bird over the half-drowned trees.“You’retheone who started this.” 
Ashfur padded warily to the water. Thistleclaw, Darkstripe, and the other Dark Forest warriors were staring in undisguised alarmat the lake. But the spirit cats clustered behind Ashfur like chicks following theirmother. As Ashfur neared the edge, they huddled closer. Berrynose almost stepped on the dark warrior’s paws. Ashfur waved them away with an irritable flick of his tail, but a stone shifted beneath his pawand hestumbled.His forepawsplashed into the water. Tail bushing, he jerked back and barged clumsily into the spirit cats under his control. They scattered in panic, then stopped a few tail-lengths away, staring at him, confused. 
Ashfur’s pelt lifted self-consciously along his spine. “Can’t you stop themcrowding around me?” he snapped at Darkstripe. 
Darkstripe eyed him coldly. “I don’t control them. You do.” 
Ashfurflattened his ears.“Watch yourtone.” 
Darkstripe held his gaze fora moment,then looked away. “Sure,” hemumbled. 
Ashfursnorted and stumbled in his haste to retreat from the water. Seeming to panic, he jumped to his paws and jerked away, then took in a breath. “This place is no use to us now that the island is gone,” he remarked, his voice smooth again.Hepadded backtoward theforest. 
Darkstripe followed with the other Dark Forest warriors, the spirit cats padding obediently between them. 
Rootspring ducked lower and waited for them to disappear among the trees, then crept out from his hiding place. Should he keep following them? As he gazed at the forest, he felt the tug of the water. He padded to the edge, his pelt tingling. Curiosity was pulling himcloserto the lake. He had to knowwhat darkness lay there. As he neared it,he felt cold, suddenly light-headed, his strength ebbing as though he’d traveled for days without rest or food. Dread rose in his belly, seeming to twine like ivy around his throat untilhecould hardly breathe. 
He pulled away, his paws tingling with fear. How could water make himfeellikethis? 
He had to get away. Turning, he raced across the shore, hardly awareofthedamp earth beneath his paws. 
Stop! The voice in his head rang like the cry of a foxin the night. It shrilled through his pelt, setting it on end, and he pulled up, his breath catching as he looked down and sawdarkwatera muzzle-length fromhis paws.Awide stream had spilled fromthelakeand reached across theshore. 
Shock sparked along his tail. He’d nearly run straight into it!Thestrangevoicehad saved him. 
He backed away, his heart pounding. I need to find the others. The water was spreading fast. He had to warn them, and he wanted to tell someone about the voice that had saved him.Perhaps togetherthey could workout who would be speaking to himherein theDarkForest. 
His thoughts spinning,Rootspring veered away fromthe water and into the bushes. If he followed the route he’d come by, it wouldleadhimthrough the woods andbackto the StarClan barrier. He pushed his way eagerly between the decaying branches, forcing back a shudder as the wilting leaves slid along his spine. 
He pitied the warriors who came here after death. Did any of themregret the actions that had brought themto the Dark Forest? His thoughts flitted to Snowtuft and he felt a sudden jab ofgrief.Ifonly the scarred tomhad had achance to see StarClan; he’d deserved a chance at happiness after sacrificing himself to save the spirit cats. Instead, he’d disappeared forever. 
Rootspring shook out his pelt, remembering what Shadowsight had said about the DarkForest. This place fed on misery. He had to keep hoping. Lifting his muzzle, he focused on finding the others. I’m going to get to them before Ashfur’s cats can. He wasn’t going to let Bristlefrost, orany ofthem,fallinto the paws ofthe DarkForest warriors. They were going to get out of this place and find a way to defeat Ashfur. 
Breaking from the bushes, he raced between the trees. Surely Shadowsight must have found his way back to the Moonpoolby now. Keeping low, Rootspring began to push his way between the brambles. Beyond them, a swath of ferns filled a dip in the forest floor and Rootspring plunged in,halfclosing his eyes against the fronds as he pushed his way through. He burst out, relieved to be clearof them, and shookthe leafdust fromhis ears. 
I’m coming, Bristlefrost. With a rush ofhope,hepictured finding her at the barrier, with Stemleaf, Spiresight, and Willowshine. Between them, they would find a way to save StarClan. Once they had the help of the living Clans, they could free the rest of the spirit cats and break down the barrierthat had cut themofffromStarClan. 
As he began to head upslope, he saw something move. He froze. A cat was slinking out from behind a tree. Rootspring’s chest tightened as he recognized thewide face. He’d met this warriorbefore. 
Her round amber eyes shimmered with satisfaction as she unsheathed her claws. “Hi, Rootspring,” she snarled, blocking his path. 
Rootspring stepped back,forcing his pelt not to spike as he stared at thevicious she-cat.Mapleshade. 


Chapter 
5 


Shadowsight peered along the path snaking ahead of him. This part of the forest looked exactly like the last. How was he meant to find his way to the Moonpool when every tree was as twisted as the last and the moss, which seemed to cover every trunk and root, turned everything to the same miserablecolor? 
He stiffened as something caught his eye. What’s that? Was the shape ahead a shadowora DarkForest warrior? He held his breath, not daring to move, and strained his eyes untilhe could see that its rough pelt was not matted fur,but bark. It’s a branch. Relieved, he padded on once more, wincing a little. As his dizziness had faded and the throbbing behind his ear had begun to ease, he’d become moreand moreawareofthe wound in his leg.Mothwing had treated it after his last visit to the Dark Forest, but it had reopened when Ashfur had attacked him and was burning now. 
Ignore it. Rootspring and Bristlefrost had been far more badly injured, and they were racing through the forest right at this very moment, leading Ashfur and his warriors on a wild rabbit hunt so that he’d have time to reach the Moonpool. He just hoped Ashfur hadn’t managed to catch up with them.I can be as brave as they are. 
Shadowsight lifted his muzzle and pushed on. He had to get backto theliving Clans.They would haveto send help if they wanted to destroy the barrierthat had cut themofffrom StarClan. There was no time to waste. The rivulets of dark water were cutting ever more deeply into the forest floor. And Shadowsight could seefog always pressing at theedge of his vision,as though at any moment it would rush in and swallowup thetrees. 
I just wish this were a real forest. At least then he’d be able to use scent to find his way. Back home, he’d always known where he was, even with his eyes closed. The smell of fresh chervil or a patch of coltsfoot or the brush of soft borage leaves against his paws would orient himeven faster than his sight could.Hereeverything smelled ofrot. 
Shadowsight hopped over another dark stream and scanned the trees,hoping to find a clue that he was going in the right direction. Was this really the way to the Moonpool? He stopped where a boulder forced the path to curve and sniffed the stone, hoping to smellhis own scent, or perhaps Rootspring’s. If this was the path to the Moonpool,hewould havepassed this way too,surely? 
He flicked his tail in frustration as he breathed in only the danksmellofdecay and lifted his wounded leg,hopping on three paws to ease the jabbing pain that shot up his tail with every step. 
Anxiety prickled in his gut. The path was stretching into deeper shadow. What if he was nowhere near the Moonpool? What if he’d been traveling in entirely the wrong direction and only getting farther away? His heart sank at the thought but he pushed on, feeling suddenly weary as the hope he’d been clinging to seemed to drain into the damp earth. 
The path led to a hollow where darkwater pooled at the bottom. Shadowsight picked his way around the water and leaped over the streamthat fed it. He slid between rocks as the forest sloped up, hardly bothering to look for the path when he reached the top, sure now that he’d come the wrong way. 
He almost tripped overthe thickroot that twisted across his path. Its bark smelled fresh, and he glanced at it, wondering why no moss grewoverit.Curious,hesniffed his way along it until he reached the point where it twined into the trunk of a great tree that stood like a guardian in the darkness. His heart quickened. This was it! The way to the Moonpool! 
He looked up,trying to make out the top. Instead ofsky, the tree reached into water. Even fromhere,he could see the pool rippling at the tips of the highest branches, floating above the air. The Moonpool! He’d finally found the shimmering entranceto theliving world. 
It was a long way to the top, and his wounded leg throbbed at the thought ofthe climb as he traced a possible route through the branches. Can I make it? He shook out his pelt defiantly. He had to, no matter what. StarClan, Rootspring, Bristlefrost, and the trapped spirit cats were all depending on him. 
Hooking his claws into the bark, Shadowsight hauled himself up, grimacing as he pressed his hind paws into the trunk. Tentatively, he worked himself into the crook where the tree began to branch. The open wound on his leg stung as though Mothwing had dressed it with nettles instead of cobwebs,but hecould bearit.He’d have to. 
Trying not to think about the pain, he followed the thickest branch to where it skimmed a higher one and climbed onto the next. This branch twisted upward to reach past another. He padded carefully to where the branches crossed. It was only a smallhop fromone to the other; then he could climb up for quite a way before he’d have to jump again.I can do this. 
He crouched, bunching his muscles, then leaped across the gap. Pain sliced through his wounded leg. Panic sparked in his chest as he lost his footing. He felt himselffalling and grabbed thebarkwith his foreclaws,fighting to hang on.But his hind legs were dangling, the weight of them dragging himdown as the barkcrumbled beneath his paws.Fearburst behind his eyes as he felt the branch slide fromhis grip. He slithered down onto the lowerbranch,blinded by the pain in his leg. His flailing paws caught the branch,then lost it,and he felt air rush around himas he dropped fromthe tree and landed with athump on theground. 
He didn’t move for a moment, the breath knocked from him. Aware only of the pain in his throbbing leg,he lay still. When Ashfur had first attacked him, the pain had sent him back to the living world, but it wasn’t forcing him into unconsciousness and escape now. Would he be stuck here in the Dark Forest, so badly hurt that he could never climb out? He felt his flanks rise and fall,his breath the only noise in the silence. Then relief began to loosen the fear in his belly. The pain in his leg was easing. Gingerly he pushed himselfto his paws, keeping off this injured hind leg at first, then testing it by pressing it gently against theearth. 
He winced as pain shot through it again. He stretched it, then forced himself to pad around the tree. His leg hurt, but it could take his weight. But was it strong enough to push himto the top ofthetree? 
He grunted. Why had he let himself fall? I’m dumber than a pigeon! He looked up again toward the shimmering Moonpool, his heart aching to see how close it was. And yet he might not be able to reach it. If he couldn’t climb the tree,should hereturn to thebarrierand wait fortheothers? 
He pictured their disappointment when they saw him. They’re depending on me. They had risked theirlives to give himtimeto escape.Hecouldn’t let themdown. 
Gritting his teeth, Shadowsight climbed once more onto the lowest branch. He let his wounded leg hang limp, using only his three good legs to haul himself up to the next. He hopped along it like injured prey, then pulled himself onto the next branch and carefully madethejump he’d missed last time. 
He was panting by the time he’d made it halfway across the branch, and, when he glanced down at the forest floor, he was surprised by how far he’d climbed. His pelt burned with the effort, and he paused to catch his breath. His hind leg throbbed,but he pushed on,struggling fromone branch to the next and gritting his teeth against the pain every time his injured leg banged against thebarkorcaught on aknot. 
Only when he heard the rippling ofwaterdid he lookup, his heart pulsing with excitement as he saw that the Moonpool was now only a few tail-lengths above him. He limped along the curving branch at the top ofthe tree where the pool met the air and, after taking a deep breath, pushed his forepaws up into the water and drew himself into the Moonpool. 
The chill of it took him by surprise. It was so dark he could hardly see, and the water pressed around him so powerfully that he felt the air being forced from his lungs. Would he have enough breath to reach the surface? Dizzy with fear, he gazed up at the distant glimmer of sunshine. Keep going! He had no choice. 
Fighting the weight of the water, he kicked out with his good leg and flailed with his forepaws. The light seemed too far out of reach. Lungs aching, he pushed on, fighting the urge to breathe. Bubbles escaped his mouth, rippling through his whiskers and past his ears as they shot upward. He chased them, pulling harder until the darkness began to clear and a few muffled sounds reached him. Suddenly light flooded the water around him, and a moment later he broke the surface. Happiness burst in his chest as, gasping, he splashed across thepool.He was home! 
Sunshine filled the hollow, blinding after the gloom of the Dark Forest. He crouched in the shallows at the edge of the Moonpool, weakwith relief, and then rushed toward his body, still sleeping beside Bristlefrost’s at the pool’s edge. Warmth filled him as he felt his spirit reconnect to his physicalform. He drewin gulp aftergulp ofcold,clean air. It was heavy with the scent of moorland and forest, and he relished the taste. I made it! I’m whole again! When he’d caught his breath, he pushed himself to his paws. He glanced around eagerly, surprised to find cats from every Clan gathered in thehollow. 
Why were they glaring at each other? They were standing a fewtail-lengths fromthe pool,theirears and tails twitching with annoyance. Graystripe, Bramblestar, Squirrelflight, and Jayfeather stood together. Tigerstar glowered at them,his forehead furrowed in afrown. 
I’m back! Shadowsight wanted to call to his father, but then he noticed the leaders of the other Clans, each with theirmedicine cat,staring so coldly at the ThunderClan cats that he didn’t dareinterrupt. 
Ivypool and Dovewing were here too, and Tree. A few tail-lengths away, the Sisters kept their distance, watching the Clan cats,theireyes narrowwith interest. 
No cat noticed Shadowsight.Perhaps heshould clearhis throat to let themknow he’d made it back. Or he could just limp between themand let themseehimforthemselves. 
Bramblestar’s tail swished impatiently. “It’s clear what weneed to do—” 
But Leafstarcut himoffbefore he could explain. “Wait a moment, Bramblestar. You’ve only just returned from the DarkForest.Perhaps you should let the otherleaders handle this.” 
Squirrelflight whirled on the SkyClan leader.“You should be glad to havehimback!” 
But Leafstar eyed her calmly. “I am. But let’s not forget, he was away fromus fora long time.” 
“What does that mean?” Squirrelflight demanded with a glare. 
“Isn’t it possible he might have been tainted by his time there?” Leafstarmewed. 
“Tainted?” Squirrelflight bristled. 
Shadowsight blinked in surprise.Howcould the SkyClan leader believe that Bramblestar could be anything but brave and honorable? 
Mistystar moved closer to Leafstar. “The Dark Forest breeds evil,” she mewed. “We’ve witnessed it time after time.” 
Tigerstar stiffened. “Oh, have we?” he shot back. “Because I trained there during the Great Battle, and somehowIemerged asensible cat.” 
Mistystarsnorted. 
As he watched their interaction, Harestar’s whiskers quivered. “That may be up for debate,” he added, “but I, too, trained there. I’mnot sure you understand what you’re implying,Leafstar.” 
The SkyClan leader’s neck fur ruffled. “I understand perfectly well, thankyou. There’s neverbefore been a living cat who spent so much time in the Dark Forest, has there? Even in the Great Battle, the warriors returned home after their training—at least, that’s what I understand?” Leafstar glanced around at theotherleaders. 
“That’s correct,” Dovewing mewed softly. 
“And don’t forget Ashfur lived in Bramblestar’s body for over a moon,” Leafstar mewed. “I’m only saying—we can’t be sure his influenceis gone.” 
Bramblestar’s eyes widened. “But I am myself now, not Ashfur!” heexclaimed.“I’veneverbeen anything likehim!” 
Squirrelflight pressed against her mate and stared indignantly at the other leaders. “Bramblestar is a true warrior!” 
Mistystar’s ears twitched.“Hewas in thepast,maybe.” 
“And now!” Squirrelflight insisted. 
Leafstar looked doubtful. “Why would we take your word forit?” 
“You were in the Dark Forest with him,” Tigerstar reminded Squirrelflight. 
Ivypool glared at the ShadowClan leader. “I’ve been in the DarkForest too,and I’mgrowing tired ofthis argument.” She’d been one of the ThunderClan apprentices who had sneaked into the Dark Forest many moons ago when it threatened war on the living Clans. “I have a kit in the Dark Forest right now, and I certainly hope you’re not going to reject her when she returns. Because being in the Place of No Stars didn’t make me evil. If anything, seeing the cruelty theremademea better warrior.Bramblestarwould neverlet it changewho he was.” 
Squirrelflight dipped herhead gratefully to Ivypool. 
Bramblestarlifted his chin. “I’mthe same cat I’ve always been.The DarkForest didn’t changeme,orSquirrelflight.” 
But Leafstar still looked uncertain. “How can we be sure?” 
Shadowsight stared at the leaders. What a ridiculous conversation. Why were they being so difficult? There wasn’t time! “I was with them,” he called out as he limped from the edge of the Moonpool. “I know what happened there. Bramblestar and Squirrelflight were true warriors! They couldn’t change even if they wanted to. They would diefortheirClan and foreach otherand you knowit.” 
“Shadowsight!” Dovewing pushed past them, her tail quivering with excitement. “You’re awake!You’re back!” She hurried to his side and pressed her muzzle against his ear, purring so loudly that he could hardly hear the mews of the other cats. Tigerstar wound around them, his purr drowning out Dovewing’s, and Shadowsight’s throat tightened with emotion. He was home, and he was safe again. He rested against his motherfora moment before pulling away.He was hereon a mission. 
Tigerstarstared at himeagerly.“What happened?” 
“Was therea battle?” Harestarasked. 
Mothwing whisked hertail.“Did you defeat Ashfur?” 
Mistystarpricked herears.“Is hedead?” 
Excited mews rippled around theothercats. 
Tree shouldered his way to the front. “Where’s Rootspring?” He glanced anxiously toward the Moonpool as though heexpected his kit to appearany moment. 
“Where’s Bristlefrost?” Ivypool left her kit’s sleeping body to stand beside him. “Why hasn’t she come backwith you?” 
Shadowsight hesitated. Howcould he tellthemthat their kits were still in danger? “They’re still in the Dark Forest,” he mewed, adding quickly, “But they’re okay.” At least they 
were when I last saw them. 
Ivypool and Tree exchanged glances, fear showing in theireyes. 
Dovewing sniffed Shadowsight’s pelt, recoiling as she spotted the fresh blood where his leg wound had reopened. “You’re hurt!” 
“I’mfine,” Shadowsight promised. He shiftedhis paws, feeling suddenly overwhelmed as more cats crowded around him. 
Graystripe padded to his side and gently waved them away with his tail. “We can deal with his injuries later.” He blinked reassuringly at Dovewing.“Fornow,give himspace, and let’s hearwhat hehas to say.” 
Shadowsight dipped his head gratefully at the elder. He could see why he’d been ThunderClan’s leader while Bramblestar and Squirrelflight had been lost in the Dark Forest. 
Mistystar stared solemnly at Shadowsight. “What happened?” 
Taking a deep breath, Shadowsight began. “Bramblestar must have already told you what Ashfur’s been doing in the Dark Forest,” he mewed. “How he’s been controlling the spirits of cats who’ve died and not been able to reach StarClan.” 
Bramblestar looked grave. “He’s also persuaded a lot of the DarkForest warriors to join him.” 
Shadowsight nodded. “There were too many cats for us to fight,” hemewed. 
Tigerstar glanced at Shadowsight’s bleeding leg. “It looks like you tried to fight them anyway,” he mewed anxiously. 
“We had no choice,” Shadowsight told him. “We had to stop them from killing Rootspring.” Tree’s eyes widened in alarm. “When we reached the Dark Forest,” he went on, “Ashfur had already set his cats on Rootspring. Bristlefrost fought them off and I distracted Ashfur and broke his concentration for long enough that his control over the spirits slipped and they could get away. But we weren’t fast enough,and Ashfurand his warriors attacked again.” 
Dovewing tried to hurry backto his side, but Graystripe waved herbackwith his tail. 
“Let himfinish,” theThunderClan eldermewed. 
“I’m okay.” Shadowsight blinked at his mother reassuringly. His leg was throbbing, but telling the Clans what he knew was more important. “We thought we were going to die for sure. But then Snowtuft attacked Ashfur and gave us chanceto escape—” 
Ivypool interrupted. “Snowtuft?” She looked puzzled. “But he was a Dark Forest warrior. He wasn’t on Ashfur’s side?” 
“He was pretending to support Ashfur,” Squirrelflight explained. “But he was fighting on our side when Bramblestarand Iwerethere.Hehelped us escape.” 
Shadowsight nodded. “And he saved me. He saved all ofus.” 
Bramblestar’s ears pricked eagerly. “So Ashfur doesn’t have every DarkForest warrioron his side….” 
“He has enough,” Shadowsight told himgrimly. 
Bramblestar’s gaze darkened. Leafstar, Mistystar, and Harestarstared at Shadowsight in dismay. 
“There is good news, though.” Their plan rested on Shadowsight’s convincing the living cats to join the fight. And he was about to share the most important discovery of all. 
Mistystarleaned forward.Harestar’s tailtwitched. 
Shadowsight dipped his head. “We spoke to StarClan,” he mewed. 
Shadowsight’s heart seemed to growat the sight oftheir faces brightening. 
“StarClan!” Jayfeatherspoke forthe first time,his blind blueeyes shining. 
Puddleshinepadded forward.“Arethey okay?” 
Alderheart’s pelt prickled excitedly. “Who did you speak to?” 
“Leafpool.” Shadowsight paused as he remembered how happy he’d been to hear the StarClan she-cat’s voice echoing through thebarrier. 
Squirrelflight’s eyes glistened with apprehension. “Is sheokay?” 
“She’s fine,” Shadowsight told her. “StarClan’s fine. They neverabandoned us.” 
The gathered cats looked at each other,ears pricking and pelts twitching with hope. Shadowsight felt a surge of pride as he sawhis father’s eyes light up. Harestarlifted his tail,a purr rumbling in his throat. Their relief seemed brighter than the sunshine that flooded thehollow. 
Shadowsight explained. “StarClan couldn’t reach us. They tried, but Ashfur has blocked the path between StarClan and the Dark Forest, and somehow that’s blocked StarClan’s connection with us as well. Leafpool told us that the pool they watch us through is clogged with vines so they can’t see us. I’mstillnot sure howit allworks,but he’s trapped them inside their hunting grounds and they can’t communicate with the living Clans. That’s why they’ve been silent.” 
Harestarfrowned.“Can’t they unblockthepath?” 
Shadowsight shookhis head. “They’ve been trying,but Ashfur’s built a barrier so strong that they can’t break through it alone,and it’s been growing strongerallthetime.” 
“Why?” Mistystarstared at him. 
“It seems that the more the Clans lose hope in StarClan, the strongerthe barrierbecomes,” Shadowsight told her. 
“But we’ve never lost hope in StarClan!” Mistystar objected. 
Harestar shot her a stunned look. “We thought they’d abandoned us,” he mewed. “That they were punishing us forbreaking thewarriorcode.That’s losing hope,isn’t it?” 
“But we kept trying to get them back,” the RiverClan leaderinsisted. 
Tigerstar grunted. “We did some terrible things to get themback,” hemewed darkly. 
Shadowsight flicked his tail. He knewthat his fatherwas right. When Ashfur had been in control of Bramblestar’s body, he had forced the other leaders to punish the “codebreakers” in their Clans. Ashfur had identified Dovewing, Shadowsight’s mother, as one of the cats meriting punishment,but Tigerstarhad refused to followthe false Bramblestar’s orders. Still, other cats were exiled, or given absurd punishments… . But we don’t have time to dwell on the past. Shadowsight needed cats to help them fight now, before the dark waters cut off the Dark Forest, and any chance ofreconnecting with StarClan, forever. “We thinkwe’vefound away to breakthebarrierdown.” 
“‘We’?” Bramblestarblinked at him. 
“Me and Bristlefrost and Rootspring,” Shadowsight explained. “We were at the barrier. We saw the vines knotting it together. They looked impossible to break, but then Bristlefrost told Stemleaf that Spotfur was expecting kits….” Shadowsight hesitated. Would this make any sense to these cats? He knew it must sound terribly bizarre, even to his fellow medicine cats. But he had no choice. He just hoped they’d understand. “Stemleaf was so happy that one ofthevines snapped.” 
Leafstarlooked dubious.“Isn’t that just acoincidence?” 
“No,” Shadowsight pressed. “We think it’s related to hope. When we tried thinking positive thoughts, we found wecould breakthrough even morevines.” 
Mistystar frowned. “Not enough to break the barrier completely,though.” 
“That’s because there weren’t enough of us,” Shadowsight told her. “If we could take more living cats to the Dark Forest, we might be able to weaken it enough to pullit apart.Then the spirits trapped therecan find theirway to StarClan, and everything can go back to normal.” Shadowsight gazed hopefully around at the gathered cats. We have to try. He blinked at his father. Surely Tigerstar would support him? 
His father eyed him cautiously. “How many cats would haveto go to theDarkForest?” 
“Well, a lot,” Shadowsight admitted. “We need enough cats to feelhope to breakdown the barrier …and then we’d stillhaveto defeat Ashfurand his army.” 
“It’s a big riskto take.” Leafstar’s pelt pricked along her spine. “Even if you’re able to free StarClan and convince themto help you …it sounds like Ashfur has a lot of Dark Forest warriors on his side.” 
Mistystarshifted her paws uneasily. “Ifa warrior dies in that place, they’re gone forever, aren’t they? How many Clanmates would webewilling to lose to adeath like that?” 
“Haven’t welost enough already?” Harestarmewed. 
Shadowsight puffed out his chest. “The cats you’ve already lost are trapped in the Dark Forest. They don’t deserve to be there. They died fighting for their Clan. They should be in StarClan.” The leaders exchanged glances. “And we need to rescue Bristlefrost and Rootspring,” he went on. How could they hesitate after their warriors had been willing to risk their lives? “They put themselves in great dangerso Icould come back. They led Ashfurand his warriors away to givemetime.Wecan’t let themdie there.” 
Ivypool’s eyes rounded with fear. 
Treepadded forward.“Wehaveto send help.” 
Tigerstar’s shoulders were stiff. Shadowsight knew that his father wasn’t going to be easily persuaded. “I think we should take some time to thinkabout this,” the ShadowClan leadermewed. 
“We don’t have time!” Shadowsight wailed. “There’s water everywhere in the Dark Forest, and fog, and it’s swallowing everything up. We have to unblock the barrier so the spirit cats can get to StarClan before the DarkForest disappears!” 
But Tigerstar didn’t look moved by Shadowsight’s plea. In fact, his eyes brightened. “Wouldn’t that solve all our problems? If the Dark Forest disappears, then Ashfur will disappearwith it,along with whatever’s blocking the way to StarClan.” 
Squirrelflight eyed Tigerstar sharply. “Of course you don’t want to do anything,” she growled. “Your kit is back with theliving.” 
“Is that so wrong?” Tigerstarmewed. 
Squirrelflight stiffened,herhackles rising. “Ofcourse it’s wrong!” 
Ivypool stepped closer to Tree and lashed her tail. “Meanwhile,our kits arestillstuckthere!” 
Tree gazed steadily at the ShadowClan leader. “If the Dark Forest disappears, Bristlefrost and Rootspring will disappearwith it.” 
“So many spirit cats are trapped too.” Shadowsight stared pleadingly at his father. “Strikestone’s there, and Conefoot.” 
Tigerstar stared at him for a moment, then shook his head. “I don’t mean to sound callous,” he said, “but those cats are already gone. Let’s thinkabout this fora moment. It would be adreadfulsacrifice,ofcourse”—herehenodded at Tree and Ivypool, who glared back at him—“but imagine being free of the DarkForest and allthe evilcats it holds … forever!” 
Tree shook out his pelt as if he were trying to recover froma chill. “I know you’re not serious,” he mewed. “What separates Clan cats from the rogues? We care about each other—weprotect each other!But why not my kit?” 
“Rootspring knew he was taking a risk,” Mistystar pointed out. “But this isn’t about any one cat! It would be irresponsible of us not to consider what Tigerstar is saying….” 
Shadowsight shook his head, unable to believe what he was hearing. Would Tigerstar let even his own warriors disappear for good? Shadowsight took a breath. If they know how much is at stake, they’ll have to do something. “When we spoke to Leafpool through the barrier, she said the living world, the Dark Forest, and StarClan are all balanced. By blocking off one, Ashfur has caused disturbances in the others. And if one disappears …” At last,hesawTigerstar’s ears twitch.Have I gotten through to him? 
The ShadowClan leader dipped his head. “Okay,” he conceded. “If even the living world is threatened, let’s say we have to do something.” He glanced around at the other leaders. “But is this a fight we can even win? How can we send in enough cats to outnumber Ashfur and his warriors?” 
Puddleshine suddenly padded forward, his pale blue eyes glittering, and at the sight of his mentor Shadowsight felt areliefso strong that helet out aheavy breath.“Perhaps we don’t need to. Weren’t you listening to Shadowsight?” 
the ShadowClan medicine cat mewed. “First we destroy the barrier. And to do that, we don’t have to fight; we just need to hope.” He pointed his muzzle toward Shadowsight. “What ifourcats don’t have to do allthe hoping? You said the spirit cats could help ifwecould freeenough ofthem.” 
“Yes,” Shadowsight mewed eagerly, feeling weak with gratitude for Puddleshine’s problem-solving. Even if his mentordidn’t support sending in a horde ofstrong warriors, his alternate plan might work. “If we can free the spirit cats, theirhopemight beenough to breakthevines.” 
Jayfeather looked thoughtful. “The spirit cats aren’t the only cats in theDarkForest who might help.” 
Tigerstar blinked at the ThunderClan medicine cat. “Are you saying that we could persuade Dark Forest cats to join us?” 
“Why not?” Jayfeather mewed. “Snowtuft did. Why shouldn’t others? They don’t even have to fight. We only need them to hope. And surely Dark Forest warriors must hopeforsomething?” 
Shadowsight’s paws pricked excitedly. “Because the worlds are all connected, the barrier Ashfur has built is destroying theirhome too,” he mewed.“Ifwe can makethem seethat,surely they’llwant to breakit down.” 
Mistystar grunted. “Why would any cat want to save the DarkForest?” 
Bramblestar looked at her. “Living in the Dark Forest is still better than disappearing altogether.” The ThunderClan leader’s expression was grim,his eyes as darkas prey holes, as though hewas stillhaunted by his timethere. 
Squirrelflight’s tail was flicking eagerly. “Okay. So we send in a small team of cats. If they can persuade enough spirit and Dark Forest cats to help destroy the barrier,” she mewed, “we can free StarClan. With them beside us, we could defeat Ashfuronceand forall.” 
Shadowsight sensed the gathered cats shifting, their movement hardly noticeable, and yet something seemed to change.Had Squirrelflight’s words inspired them?Harestar’s whiskers quivered. Leafstar glanced eagerly at the Moonpool.Only Mistystar’s gazeremained dark. 
“That sounds like a lot of ifs and maybes,” she growled. “We’ve already lost so much.” 
Shadowsight saw grief in her wide blue eyes and guessed that she was thinking ofWillowshine.She must feel guilty that she’d allowed her medicine cat to take a risk so dangerous that it had killed her. He met the RiverClan leader’s gaze. “We’ve lost cats very precious to us,” he acknowledged. “But if we stop now, we’re going to lose themforever.” 
Mistystar’s ears twitched with alarm. 
“We might be able to keep them close if we try,” he pressed. “We have to save something more important than any ofourlives. Something that means no cat can evertruly die.” 
Harestarfrowned.“You mean …” 
“StarClan,” Shadowsight finished, looking around, relieved to see hope lighting up the other cats’ eyes. Even Tigerstarlifted his tail,and Shadowsight felt his heart miss a beat. 
Had he done it? Had he convinced the Clans to send help? 

Chapter 
6 


Bristlefrost slowed and glanced over her shoulder. Was it safe to stop? She couldn’t hear any cats in the woods behind her; the sound of her paw steps echoed alone through the forest. She pulled up, relieved to catch her breath at last. Her belly tightened. Was Rootspring still running? Had he managed to keep ahead of the DarkForest warriors? He’s a fast runner, she told herself. And smart. He’ll have found somewhere safe. She had to believe it. Believing anything elsewas too painful.He’ll be waiting for me right there at the barrier. 
The idea comforted her, and she padded onward, wondering howfarshe’d come and howto get back. As her heart slowed and her pelt began to cool, she glanced over her shoulder again. She frowned. Had the woods changed behind her? The trees looked denser than before, and the smooth forest floor seemed to have contracted somehow and pushed up into haphazard hills. Howwould she be able to retracehersteps now? 
She turned to keep going, her heart lurching as she saw a ditch torn open at herpaws,in ground that had been level a moment ago. Surprised, she nearly stumbled into it, managing to hop the gap just in time and climb the short, steep slope beyond. As she paused at the top, her sense of foreboding deepened. Running between the sharp dips and rises,shecould seeveins ofdarkwater. 
Feeling utterly lost,she was more gratefulthan everthat she’d managed to outrun Ashfur’s warriors. They must be accustomed to the unsettling landscape; they probably knew how to navigate its shifting nature. She scanned the trees again warily. Perhaps she hadn’t lost them after all. Perhaps they’d known where she was heading and had run to cut heroff.Werethey watching hernow? 
Keeping low, she picked her way past a bramble, careful not to let its thorns catch in her pelt. There was something menacing about its gnarly stems, as though a prick from themcould poison her.The thought made hershudder.Keep hoping, she told herself. She knew from what she’d witnessed at the barrier that hope was very powerfulin this darkplace.Perhaps it was even herbest defense. 
The ground here was littered with leaves. She stepped lightly,trying not to disturb them. She didn’t want to leave a trailormakea sound that might giveherposition away. 
Her ears twitched. Muffled mews sounded nearby. Heart pounding, she stopped and strained to hear. Cats were whispering somewhere close. Bristlefrost dropped into a crouch and crept across the leaves, lifting her tail, careful not to make them rustle. She stopped as the forest floor opened in front of her and peeped over the edge. A narrow gully ran below, and she could make out three Dark Forest warriors at the bottom. They huddled together, their pelts flattened against theirbony frames. 
Amottled brown-and-gingertomglanced nervously over his shoulder before turning his gaze back to a gray tabby who seemed to fade in and out, becoming temporarily insubstantial, like a shadow. “But you’ve seen it for yourself, Maggottail,” the tom mewed. “The Dark Forest is shrinking.” 
“So?” Maggottail shrugged. “Soon we won’t have to worry about the Dark Forest. What Ashfur’s promised is huge. That’s why every cat is following him, even Mapleshade.” 
“But it’s shrinking fast,” the mottled tomgrowled. “We’ll be standing on top ofeach othersoon.” 
“Just wait,” Maggottail urged. “As soon as Ashfur delivers on his promise,wewon’t need this placeanymore.” 
Bristlefrost’s breath quickened. What did they mean? She stretched her head farther over the edge, trying not to miss a word. 
The mottled brown she-cat’s pelt was twitching nervously. “How much longer do we have to wait?” she asked. 
Maggottail rolled his eyes. “Stop worrying so much, Sparrowfeather.” 
“I might be right to worry,” Sparrowfeather argued. “Redwillow’s right. The Dark Forest is shrinking. We can’t wait much longer.” 
Redwillow twitched his tail. “Ashfur’s been promising things fora long time. So far,he’s only taken care ofhimself. Now these new cats have shown up to fight us. Did Ashfur knowthey’d come?” 
“He didn’t seemvery prepared forthem,” Sparrowfeather chimed. “I don’t think things are going exactly how he planned.” 
“Then what if he doesn’t keep his promise?” Redwillow stared at Maggottail. “What if he can’t? Even the best huntercan’t wish apigeon out ofthesky.” 
Maggottail looked thoughtful. “What choice do we have? If the DarkForest is disappearing, Ashfur is our only way out. It’s not like StarClan is going to help us. We have to help ourselves.” He lowered his voice even more. “And if Ashfurdoes comethrough—” 
Bristlefrost edged a little farther forward, desperate to hear. 
“—we’llbeableto—” 
Herpawslipped,sending aflurry ofleaves fluttering into the gully. 
Three muzzles jerked toward her. Three pairs of eyes locked onto hers. 
Tail bushing, Bristlefrost scrabbled out of sight. But it was too late. 
“Spy!” 
The dark warriors’ paw steps were already thrumming overtheearth below.In afewmoments,they’d reach theend of the gully and be tearing up the slope toward her. Bristlefrost fled, herpaws skidding overthe leaves. Digging in her claws, she hared downslope. As she gained momentum, she pushed harder, trying to pick a straight line between the tightly packed trees. The dips and rises made it hard to find her rhythm. She slithered down one slope and scrambled up the next, slow, then fast, then slow again as she met a new ridge. The path that had seemed clear a moment ago was now dotted with trees, and she had to zigzag between them,neverquiteableto pickup speed. 
She could hearthe pawsteps ofthe DarkForest warriors behind her. They must know this terrain like their own markings. Their steps sounded surer, pounding over the ground with an even beat. She heard distance opening between themand she guessed what they were doing. How many times had she used this tactic when hunting rabbit with a patrol? When prey bolts, spread out. It was a hunting move every warrior learned. To one side she glimpsed mottled ginger fur where Redwillow was cutting off one escape route, and she glanced the other way, her heart sinking, to find Sparrowfeather rounding a bramble to block herpath. 
Ahead, the land sloped down again, and she raced across it, wind streaming in her fur. A narrow passage between the trees gave her a chance to pick up speed. She pressed harder against the earth, and followed the passage as it became a channel, the ground rising on either side as she fled deeper into it. Panic flared beneath her pelt. The warriors had skillfully driven her this way just as a patrol would drive a rabbit into a hollow. She could hearpawsteps behind her and fought desperation as she saw a steep rock wall blocking the end of the deep ditch they’d chased her into. She slowed to a halt in front of it and turned, ears flat, teeth bared.She’d haveto fight. 
Claws unsheathed, she glared at her pursuers as they came to a stop. Blood roared in her ears as she saw them exchange glances. Saw them silently discuss how they would attack. She braced herself, trying not to tremble. Redwillowstared at herfora moment,then raced toward her. She ducked low, expecting claws, but instead the warrior crashed clumsily into her. His head butted hers with a thump, sending her reeling. She winced, stars flashing before her. That was no battle move she’d ever learned. What in StarClan was hedoing? 
Confused,she shookaway the pain, herpelt bushing as she saw Sparrowfeather charge, then leap. Bristlefrost crouched as the she-cat landed clumsily on her back. She braced for the sting of claws. But none came. Instead, Sparrowfeatherwobbled like a squirreltrying to balance on a branch, then slithered off and landed on the ground beside her. 
Bristlefrost backed away. Had these cats ever been warriors? She blinked at them, wondering what they would do next. Hope bubbled in her chest. If this was their idea of fighting,shemight escapeafterall. 
Sparrowfeather got to her paws, looking bemused. Redwillowshrugged. 
Maggottailsnorted at themscornfully.“Let me try.” 
Bristlefrost could hardly believe her eyes. The gray tabby was padding calmly toward her. She wondered whether to take a swipe at the mouse-brain, but he seemed so uninterested in fighting that she held back. Instead she watched as he stopped beside herand pressed his head into her flank. He began pushing, and pushed until her paws skidded over the earth and he was pressing her against the stone cliff. She didn’t resist. She was too confused. There was no point starting a fight if these cats were too featherbrained to useeven the simplest battlemoves. 
“Is it working?” Maggottail called to the others as he squashed heragainst thestone. 
“No.” Sparrowfeathersat down. 
Redwillow was frowning. “Perhaps she has to be asleep.” 
Bristlefrost wriggled free and looked around at the Dark Forest cats.“What in StarClan areyou trying to do?” 
Maggottail’s ears twitched. “We’re trying to take over yourbody,mouse-brain.” 
Bristlefrost blinked at him.“You’re what?” 
“Like Ashfur did with Bramblestar,” Sparrowfeather explained. 
Bristlefrost swallowed back a purr, surprised that anything could be funny in this place. These cats seemed to have heads stuffed with thistledown. Did they really think this was how Ashfur had stolen Bramblestar’s body? She didn’t even know how to begin to explain that her body wasn’t really here, anyway—it was fast asleep in the living world. “You can’t just step into my body like you’re stepping into aden.” 
Redwillow tipped his head to one side. “Why not? We’vedone the ritual.” 
“Ritual?” Bristlefrost stared at him. 
“Ashfur told us we’d be able to once we’d followed the ritual,” Redwillowexplained. 
“What ritual?” Bristlefrost wanted to know exactly what Ashfurhad told thesecats. 
“We had to pull out three of our whiskers,” Maggottail explained. “Then close oureyes and wait while he tookthem to thebarrierblocking offStarClan and buried them.” 
Redwillow narrowed his eyes. “He said the ritual was howhe’d gained enough powerto takeoveraliving cat.” 
Bristlefrost searched his gaze.“And you believed him?” 
Sparrowfeathernodded.“Wetried it as soon as weheard there were living cats in the Dark Forest,” she told Bristlefrost. “So we should be able to take over your body now.” Shelooked puzzled again.“But it’s not working.” 
Redwillow was frowning. “Perhaps Ashfur has to be hereforit to work,” hemused. 
Bristlefrost stifled a snort. My body would have to be here for it to work, too, she thought with amusement. Still, she felt sorry for these cats. They’d fallen for Ashfur’s ridiculous lies. But hadn’t her own Clan fallen for themtoo? At least she understood now why the Dark Forest warriors were so willing to followAshfur—he’d promised thema new life among the living Clans in return for their support. Her amusement faded as she realized how desperate they must be to escapetheDarkForest.Sympathy swelled in herchest. “I’mso sorry.” 
Sparrowfeatherand Redwillowlooked at her,surprised. 
Maggottailnarrowed his eyes.“What for?” 
“Ashfurlied to you,” Bristlefrost mewed. “He can’t give you the powerto takeoverthebodies ofliving cats.” 
“But he did it,” Redwillow reminded her. “He took over Bramblestar’s body.” 
“That’s because Bramblestarhad nine lives,” Bristlefrost explained. “Ashfur worked out that there was a moment between losing one life and returning with the next when his spirit could slip into Bramblestar’s body and take his place. But I’m not a leader. You couldn’t use my body, even if I died.” 
“We could take over a leader, like he did,” Maggottail pointed out. 
“I suppose.” Bristlefrost frowned, wondering if all the leaders were vulnerable now. “But there are only five leaders. Even if they all died, how would you decide which DarkForest warriors would get theirbodies?” 
The DarkForest warriors glanced at each other,uneasy. 
Maggottailbristled.“You’relying!” 
Bristlefrost met his gaze steadily.“Don’t you thinkthat if pulling out your whiskers and burying themwas enough to give a dead cat the power to take over a living cat, a Dark Forest warriorwould havefigured it out already?” 
Sparrowfeather sniffed. “Perhaps Ashfur’s the only one cleverenough.” 
“Then why is he back here in the Dark Forest and not living beside the lake in some other warrior’s body?” Bristlefrost watched thetabby she-cat. 
Sparrowfeather’s eyes clouded for a moment. Then her shoulders slumped.“So we can’t just take overany cat when wewant to?” 
Redwillowgrowled.“Are you saying Ashfurmade it up? The ritualand everything?” 
“What do you think?” Bristlefrost shrugged, trying to lookcalmerthan shefelt.“You knowAshfuras wellas Ido.” 
Sparrowfeather lashed her tail. “We should have guessed a ritual that made us pull out our whiskers and sit around forever with our eyes closed was a lie,” she snarled. “That worm-weaseljust wanted to seehowdumb wewere.” 
“We should stick to his plan anyway,” Maggottail mewed. 
“Why?” Sparrowfeather looked at him. “What’s in it for us ifwe can’t takeoverliving cats?” 
“Even if Ashfur can’t get us into the living Clans,” Maggottail mewed, “he still might be able to make life here betterforus.” 
“How?” Bristlefrost argued. “You’ve seen what’s happening to the Dark Forest. It’s shrinking and it might disappearaltogether. What do you thinkis going to happen to you when it does?” 
Maggottaildidn’t answer.Sparrowfeatherand Redwillow glanced uneasily at each other. 
Bristlefrost pressed on. “If you help us instead of helping Ashfur,we might be able to put things backthe way they were.” 
Maggottail’s tail was flicking back and forth. Sparrowfeather’s pelt lifted along herspine. 
Bristlefrost hesitated. Was there any point trying to convince DarkForest warriors to do something good? After all, they weren’t here because of their kind hearts or noble sacrifice. Perhaps she was wasting her breath. Worse, she might be making them angry, and she was outnumbered three to one. But what else could she do? They wouldn’t just let herwalkaway.Herbest chancewas to win themover. 
Excitement fluttered in her chest. She had to persuade them. Puffing out her fur, she tried to imagine what Bramblestarwould say. 
“Ashfur can’t be trusted,” she began. “Look what he’s done to the Dark Forest.” She glanced around. “You must have noticed the waterrising. It’s so creepy, you can’t even see your reflection in it. And there’s fog too. It’s going to swallow everything soon. Was any of that here before Ashfurarrived?” 
Maggottail watched her through slitted eyes. Sparrowfeather and Redwillow didn’t answer. She pressed on. 
“And you’ve seen how quickly he turns on his allies,” shemewed.“Lookwhat hedid to Snowtuft.” 
“Snowtuft attacked him,” Maggottailgrunted. 
“But Ashfur killed him,” Bristlefrost mewed. “Snowtuft doesn’t exist anymore. Not even as a spirit. Is that fair?” This time, she didn’t give them chance to answer. “I know howmuch you want to return to the living Clans. I’d hate to end up here, but you made your choices while you were alive and did things you can’t take back. And being here must be better than not existing at all. Don’t you think Snowtuft would settle for being here right now instead of nowhere?” Did Sparrowfeather wince? Was she actually getting through to oneofthesecats? 
“Before Ashfur came along,” Bristlefrost went on, “you had a—” She was about to say life, but stopped herself. “You had somewhere to rest and just be. Ashfur will take that away from you, and for what? Some absurd revenge that has nothing to do with you. Do you really care whether Squirrelflight and Bramblestar are happy? It makes no difference to you what happens to the living Clans. What matters to you is what happens here in the DarkForest; and ifyou followAshfur,he willdestroy it along with everything else you’veeverknown.” 
Redwillow was leaning closer now. Sparrowfeather had pricked herears. 
“You have a chance to do something you never did in the living forest,” Bristlefrost pressed. “You have a chance to fight on the side of goodness and courage and loyalty. You havealast chanceto betruewarriors.” 
Did they even want that? She tried to read their gazes but sawnothing except wary curiosity. 
“Join us.” She was going to persuade them. She had to. “Join the Clan cats and help us defeat Ashfur. Protect your home. Protect the cats who’ve become your Clan—protect the Dark Forest.” She finished, finally out of words, and stared at thethreewarriors. 
Redwillow’s eyes were bright. Sparrowfeather’s tail was swishing eagerly. Had she done it? Had she convinced them? 
Maggottail looked dubious. “What if we end up like Snowtuft?” 
“If we can get enough allies,” Bristlefrost told him, “the only cat who’llend up likeSnowtuft is Ashfur.” 
“But Ashfur has every cat on his side,” Sparrowfeather mewed anxiously.“Fighting himis hopeless.” 
“Don’t say that.There is hope,even in the DarkForest.” Bristlefrost blinked at the cats encouragingly. “And, if you help me get to the barrier between the Dark Forest and StarClan,I’llshowyou what it looks like.” 


Chapter 
7 


Rootspring’s belly churned with frustration. He examined the sheer rock walls that marked the edges of his prison. Surely there was a crack or ridge where he could find a clawhold and heave himself to the top of the towering boulders? He growled to himself when he saw only smooth stone. I don’t have time for this! The Dark Forest was shrinking,and Bristlefrost was out therealone. 
Through the only gap in the stone walls, he could see Mapleshade and Houndleap. They’d brought himhere and were guarding him. I should have fought them. But when they’d trapped him near the lake of dark water, escape had seemed hopeless. He was already wounded, and they outnumbered him. It had seemed smarterto play fortime and wait for a chance to escape without injury. But perhaps he should have tried. It was going to be impossible to escape fromhere.His heart felt so heavy he could feelit like a stone in his chest. 
Above himthe black, starless skygave no clue to how much time had passed. Was Bristlefrost waiting for him beside the StarClan barrier? Had Shadowsight made it to the Moonpool? Perhaps a patrolofliving Clan cats was already on its way to the Dark Forest. He flexed his claws. If it was, he could do nothing but wait forthem. 
Hejerked around as he heard hushed mews outside. 
“He’s on his way.” Rushtooth sounded breathless, as though he’d been running. 
Rootspring padded softly toward the entrance and peered out.Wherehad the slippery brown tomcome from? 
Mapleshade was watching the forest. “Was he pleased when you told himwe’d caught oneofthem?” 
“Really pleased,” thetompanted. 
“Of course he was pleased.” Houndleap padded toward the trees. “That’s what he asked us to do.” He pricked his ears eagerly as Ashfur padded from the shadows. “Hi, Ashfur.” 
“Tail-licker,” Mapleshade muttered as Houndleap greeted Ashfur with a dip of his head and followed him toward the boulders. She glowered at Houndleap as Ashfur stopped at the prison entrance. “Why don’t you offer to groomhimforfleas whileyou’reat it?” 
Houndleap glowered back.“Shut up!” 
“Both of you shut up,” Ashfur hissed as he padded inside. 
Rootspring froze as the dark warrior locked eyes with him. There was menace in his gaze. Rootspring forced his pelt to stay smooth.He wasn’t going to let this fox-heart see his fear.“Why areyou doing this?” hedemanded. 
Ashfurblinked at him.“Doing what?” 
“Trying to hurt StarClan!” Rootspring glared back. 
“Trying to hurt us! We’ve never done anything to harm you.” 
Ashfur padded closer and Rootspring unsheathed his claws. Had the darkwarrior come here to killhim? If he had, Rootspring vowed not to let it be an easy fight. Perhaps he’d be able to finish Ashfuroffonce and forall. He tore his gaze away from the evil tom’s dark blue eyes and tried to gauge the strength in his well-muscled shoulders, wondering how long he’d have to launch an attack before Mapleshadeand theothers rushed in to help. 
Ashfur’s muzzle twitched in a smirk.“Do you really think you can hurt me?” 
“I’d like to try!” Rootspring showed his teeth. “You’ve tried to destroy theClans Ilove.” 
“They shouldn’t have gotten in my way,” Ashfurmewed icily. 
“What do you think you’ll win by destroying us?” Rootspring stared at him. He was acting like he didn’t know he was already dead.“You can neverlive again.” 
“Is that so?” Ashfurpadded lazily around Rootspring.“I thought Ialready had.Through Bramblestar.” 
Rootspring snorted. “And how did that work out for you?” 
Ashfur thrust his muzzle toward him. “Why are you all so full of yourselves?” he hissed. “ThunderClan was just the same when I was alive. So smug. Just like you are now. 
You allthinkyou’reso loyal,but when Squirrelflight dumped me forBramblestar, none ofmy Clanmates stood by me. Not one.” He straightened,as though recovering his composure. “But I showed them. I ruled them all.” He whisked his tail. “They did whatever I told them to do. They exiled their Clanmates and fought each other, just to please me.” His gaze darkened.“And yet Squirrelflight still didn’t appreciate how powerful I was. She acted like I was an ordinary warrior.” Angeredged his mew. “She dismissed me like Iwas an apprentice. But I didn’t give up. I brought her here. I thought we could be mates at last. I thought we could rule the DarkForest together.” 
Rootspring stared at him. “Why would a living warrior want to livein theDarkForest?” 
“To be with me,ofcourse.” Ashfur’s eyes darkened with rage.“But sheonly wanted Bramblestar.” 
“Of course she wanted Bramblestar!” Rootspring couldn’t stop himself. This cat was getting more ridiculous by the moment. “Bramblestar’s her mate, and you’re just a dead warrior who’s done nothing but hurt every cat. She doesn’t owe you anything—and the moreyou try to destroy the Clans,the moreshe’llhateyou.” 
Ashfur narrowed his eyes. “I’m going to destroy more than the Clans.” He padded closer, dropping his mew and breathing into Rootspring’s ear. “I’m going to destroy the DarkForest and StarClan along with it.” 
Rootspring drewbacksharply,eyeing theentranceto his prison. Houndleap was standing there, his ears pricked with interest.But therewas no way hecould haveheard Ashfur’s whisper. 
Ashfur spoke again, so quietly that his voice wouldn’t reach the pale brown tom. “StarClan can’t survive without the Dark Forest. This place is no more than a miserable reflection of StarClan, and as it vanishes, so will StarClan. I bet it’s already started. The fog will be swallowing up their precious hunting grounds. They have so much territory, they probably haven’t even noticed yet—but, when they do, they won’t be able to stop it. Once this place is gone, StarClan won’t be far behind. It won’t be long until they’ve alldisappeared.” 
Rootspring could hardly believe his ears. Ashfur was destroying the DarkForest on purpose,and he knewthat he would destroy StarClan with it. What kind of cat would do something so cruel, and so devastating? Horror swept over Rootspring like freezing water. How had Ashfur ever managed to becomeaStarClan warrior? 
He glanced past the cruel tomto where Houndleap was still straining to hear. He clearly couldn’t. If he had, he wouldn’t still be listening with such wide, hopeful eyes. Behind him, Rushtooth hovered, his ears twitching with interest. Rootspring felt a twinge of pity. They don’t know the truth. These cats were helping Ashfur without realizing what it would mean. They must have thought he was going to reward them somehow, but he was plotting to destroy their very existence. He blinked at Houndleap. If they knew the truth, would they turn against him? 
Ashfur was still talking, cooing softly like a dove, seeming hardly aware that Rootspring was staring at him with disgust. “Once the Dark Forest is gone, I’ll be free to return to thelake.” 
How? Rootspring wondered. Wouldn’t he just disappear with theotherDarkForest warriors and StarClan? 
But Ashfur clearly believed he could do anything. “I’ll make Squirrelflight suffer,” he hissed. “She’ll pay for betraying me, along with every cat she’s ever cared about. Eventually she’ll beg me to stop and become my mate. I wonderhowmany cats willhaveto sufferbeforeshe—” 
Rootspring stiffened as another voice drowned out Ashfur’s. It was the voice he’d heard earlier in his head, as clearnowas thesound ofa stonedropping into astillpool. 
I’m going to get you out of this. 
Rootspring’s pelt lifted along his spine. 
But you’ll have to trust me. 
Heblinked slowly.I will, hepromised in return. 
The voice sounded again. Good. Now look Ashfur right in his eyes, and say these words—exactly as you hear them. 
Rootspring listened,his heart thumping so loudly hehad to concentrate to hear what the voice told him. He repeated the words, interrupting Ashfur’s raving. “You betrayed StarClan’s trust in you.They shouldn’t havelet you go.” 
Ashfurstopped,his mouth hanging open as he stared at Rootspring, his eyes wide with shock, as though he was watching prey talk. He backed away, his tail quivering, and ducked out oftheprison. 
“Ashfur?” Houndleap hopped aside as the dark warrior pushed past him.“Areyou okay?” 
Ashfur hardly looked at the Dark Forest warrior. “Keep an eyeon him,” hegrowled.“Ineed to checkthebarrier.” 
“Why?” Houndleap looked puzzled. “It looked fine last timewewerethere.” 
But Ashfurwas already sprinting into the forest. “Ineed to checkthat it’s not broken,” he yowled overhis shoulder. 
The barrier! Alarm sparked in Rootspring’s fur as he watched the dark warrior disappear among the trees. That was where he was supposed to meet Bristlefrost. Hardly breathing,hehurried to theopening. 
Mapleshade blocked his way. “You’re not going anywhere.” She glared at him menacingly and butted him roughly backinto his prison. 
As she turned to leave,Rootspring curled his claws into the earth. He had to get out ofhere. What ifBristlefrost was at the barrier when Ashfur arrived? She’d have to face him alone. 
He had to do something. He had to keep her safe. He turned and padded backinto the shadowofthe rocks.“So?” he whispered softly to the voice inside his head. “What now?” 

Chapter 
8 


Theblueskythat had welcomed Shadowsight backfromthe DarkForest was disappearing fast. As clouds drifted across the sun, darkness slid over the Moonpool hollow. Shadowsight looked hopefully at the leaders. “So you’ll send help?” 
Harestarshifted his paws. Mistystarglanced uneasily at the Moonpool. Tigerstar eyed Bramblestar and Leafstar warily,as though fearing theirreply. 
Why was no cat answering? Shadowsight felt as though his heart would burst fromhis chest. “You have to!” Alarm sparked through his pelt. Surely he’d convinced them to rescue Bristlefrost and Rootspring,and teardown the barrier that had broken the connection between the living and the dead, before the Dark Forest disappeared altogether. What about the spirit cats? They couldn’t risk losing them. He’d told themwhat Leafpoolhad said—that the DarkForest and StarClan were balanced, and if one disappeared, so would the other. She had told themthat the living world would be affected, too, that all three worlds were connected. He blinked at Tigerstar. “I promised Rootspring and Bristlefrost that I’d get help,” hepleaded.“You can’t let themdown.” 
Tigerstarstared back,his gaze as blankas that ofamind.controlled spirit cat. 
Leafstarlooked thoughtful.“Wehaveto do something.” 
Shadowsight jerked his muzzle toward her. “You have to save them!” 
Leafstar went on as though he hadn’t spoken. “If what Shadowsight told us is true—” 
“Ofcourseit’s true!” Therewasn’t timefordoubt. 
“If it’s true,” she repeated slowly, “we have no choice but to send in morewarriors.” 
Shadowsight felt a flash of relief. He glanced around at the others,trying to read theirgazes.Graystripe stared at the earth beneath his paws,looking thoughtfulbut calm. Next to him,Mothwing frowned,agitated. 
“Is it worth the risk?” she asked. “What ifit’s too late to save Bristlefrost and Rootspring? The Dark Forest is dangerous.We could lose more cats ifwego in afterthem.” 
Shadowsight could hardly believe his ears. Was his fellow medicine cat really telling them to give up on Rootspring and Bristlefrost? His mouth suddenly seemed as dry as shriveled leaves.Why wasn’t any cat objecting? 
Mothwing went on. “Ashfur’s gone.Bramblestar’s back. The Clans are safe now. How many cats are we willing to lose in the hope that we might reconnect with StarClan? We’vedone finewithout themthesepast moons.” 
Jayfeather’s ears were twitching.“That’s not true!” 
“We survived without StarClan’s help,” Mothwing pointed out.“And wegot rid ofAshfur.” 
“Only after we let him steal a leader’s life and turn us against each other,” Jayfeathersnapped. 
“There were losses,” Mothwing conceded calmly. “But weproved that wecan managewithout StarClan.” 
“You managed, yes,” Bramblestar mewed darkly. “But at what cost?” 
Mistystar padded to her Clanmate’s side and met Bramblestar’s gaze. “Do you want us to sacrifice more? Isn’t it enough that I’velost amedicinecat?” 
“I’mnot willing to sacrifice Bristlefrost and Rootspring,” Bramblestar snapped. “Don’t forget, I’ve just come fromthe Dark Forest. You have no idea how cruel it is there, and it’s getting worse because of Ashfur. Do you really think we should abandon our Clanmates to that place? They deserve better.Weneed to get themout.” 
“And the spirit cats too,” Shadowsight pressed. “They should be in StarClan.” 
“They’re already gone, but my remaining warriors are very much alive,” Mistystargrowled. 
Bramblestar flattened his ears. “Are you saying we should let Rootspring and Bristlefrost die?” 
“We can’t be sure they haven’t yet,” the RiverClan leaderpointed out. 
“We have to try to save them!” Squirrelflight’s tail was quivering. “If we abandon our Clanmates, we’re no better than rogues.” 
“This might be our last chance to reconnect with StarClan,” Shadowsight reminded them. Even if they were willing to sacrifice warriors, had they forgotten there was even moreat stake? 
Harestar’s pelt ruffled along his spine. “How many cats need to dieforStarClan’s sake?” 
“Would StarClan even want cats to die so that they can survive?” Mothwing mewed. “They’ve already lived long lives. Perhaps it’s time we let go of the dead and focus on the living.” 
Puddleshine stared at the RiverClan medicine cat. “Surely you can’t be serious!” he mewed. “I know you’ve never put your faith in StarClan, but I hoped at least that you’d come to understand how important our ancestors are to the rest of us. I can’t let StarClan go that easily, and I won’t give up what I believe in. It doesn’t matter if saving them means risking lives. There’s more to lose than you’re admitting.Ifwe let go ofStarClan,we let go ofwhat it means to be a warrior. We would be threatening the whole future of the Clans. You may not value them, but I’m willing to fight for them. I won’t let StarClan go. I will risk my own life, if I haveto.” 
Mothwing eyed him calmly. “You’re letting emotion get the betterofyou.” 
“Wecan takecareofourselves,” Harestarput in. 
“StarClan doesn’t hunt ourprey,” Mistystarchimed. “We do!” 
Leafstar’s tail flicked angrily. “Hold on. Are you saying that being a warrior means nothing more than catching prey?” 
Squirrelflight puffed out her chest. “StarClan guides our paws!” 
Shadowsight glanced at his father. Tigerstar hadn’t spoken, but he was watching Harestar and Mistystar thoughtfully. Did he agree that it wasn’t worth risking more cats to save their dead ancestors? Shadowsight felt queasy. This discussion had to stop. The Clans had to see sense. They had to send help. 
He pictured Leafpool calling desperately through the barrier.He’d promised herhe’d bring help. 
“Listen!” Shadowsight looked at the cats. “If no one goes back in, Ashfur will have won.” They blinked at him. Paws trembling, he went on. “He wanted to destroy the Clans and cut us offfromour ancestors, and unless we do something,that’s exactly what he’llhaveachieved.” 
“That’s true,” Puddleshine raised his taildefiantly. “This is exactly what Ashfurwanted.” 
“We can’t let himdestroy StarClan.” Alderheart stepped forward,his whiskers quivering.“They have protected us so many times.It’s ourturn to protect them.” 
“Without StarClan, we medicine cats are just herb gatherers and poultice mixers.” Jayfeather raised his blind bluegazeto Mothwing. 
Mothwing retorted,“That’s allweneed to be.” 
“What about loyalty?” Shadowsight demanded. “Rootspring and Bristlefrost thinkwe’re coming to help. It’s probably theonly thing giving themhope right now.” 
“You’re not the one who willhave to ordermore warriors to theirdeaths!” Mistystarsnapped. 
At the edge of the group, Tree cleared his throat, drawing every cat’s eyes to him. “You all know that I have never entirely embraced Clan life.” The yellow tom padded to the middle. He spoke softly, but his clear amber gaze was hard. “I’ve found your ways strange, and I haven’t always respected yourbeliefin StarClan. It seemed strange to me at times—these dead cats that you allowto controlthe lives of the living. I have felt that your beliefs sometimes get in the way of what seems logical and practical. But when I have questioned you, you’ve steadfastly defended your belief in StarClan. You believe that it’s what separates the Clans from rogues or kittypets. And I must admit … the longer I live among you, the more of StarClan I see, the more I understand.” He paused, his eyes traveling over the group. “What I’m asking you now is, if you don’t have StarClan, what are you?” He studied the face of each leader, as though waiting for them to answer. But no cat spoke. He went on. “They have been the center of everything the Clans have ever believed. Now, more than ever, you need to stand by your ways and beliefs, no matter how difficult it might seem.You must fight foryourway oflife.Ifyou don’t, then can you truly callyourselfwarriors?” 
“Howdare you?” Harestar’s hackles lifted. 
Agrowlrumbled in Mistystar’s throat. 
Tree blinked at them calmly. “You’ve saved Tigerstar’s kit. Won’t you accept the same risks to save mine? Rootspring never intended to go into the Dark Forest, but he’s there, and he helped rescue Bramblestar, and now he’s trying to savealltheClans.Are you really going to abandon himwhilehefights to keep yourway oflifealive?” 
Harestarlooked away. 
Dovewing padded to Tree’s side. 
Ivypool followed. “Bristlefrost is there too.” The silver.and-white tabby’s eyes brimmed with emotion. “She chose to go. She chose to help her friend rather than let himdie.” Her mew trembled as she went on, and Dovewing pressed her flank against her littermate’s supportively. “I’ve been to the Dark Forest, so I know what she’s facing. I couldn’t abandon any cat to that place, especially not my own kit. I willgo there gladly,whateverthecost,to saveher.” 
Shadowsight eyed his fatherhopefully.Tree and Ivypool had made a stronger case even than Bramblestar for saving the cats who were trapped in the Dark Forest. Even Mothwing wasn’t arguing now. But Tigerstar only glanced at his paws. 
Dovewing blinked at her mate. “Listen to me,” she told him. “We’re just lucky Shadowsight came home safely.” The ShadowClan leader’s ears twitched uneasily as she went on. “Are you really going to stand by while these cats condemn anothercat’s kits to death?” 
Shadowsight held his breath. Dovewing had a power over Tigerstar even StarClan could not match, and she was willing to stand up for Rootspring and Bristlefrost. They weren’t herkits,but his motherwould fight forthem. But his fatherstilldidn’t speak. 
Shadowsight puffed out his fur. His wounded leg was throbbing,but he ignored it. “There’s one thing I’ve learned fromseeing Ashfurcontrolthe DarkForest cats,” he mewed. “His control can be broken, and the more good cats who challenge him, the more we can disrupt it. I’msure that ifwe send in a large enough patrol, we can defeat Ashfur for good.” 
“If we betray StarClan, we give up what it means to be true warriors.” Bramblestar swished his tail. “I won’t let Ashfur change ThunderClan. We must save our Clanmates, both living and dead.” 
Harestar eyed the ThunderClan leader; then, as though coming to a decision,he dipped his head. “WindClan willdo what is right.” 
Mistystar hesitated as Harestar looked at her expectantly. She met his gaze, her blue eyes clouded with doubt,then gave a grunt. “RiverClan willfight forStarClan,” shemuttered. 
Mothwing’s tail twitched. She looked at Tigerstar. “Are you going to agreeto this recklessness too?” 
Tigerstar glanced at Dovewing. “Yes,” he told the RiverClan medicine cat. “ShadowClan will stand by its ancestors.” Shadowsight saw determination in his father’s face.At last,Tigerstarwas willing to do theright thing. 
Leafstar looked from one leader to another and then, with a sigh, dipped her head. “SkyClan will stand with the otherClans,and with StarClan.” 
Mothwing stared boldly at Bramblestar. “How are we supposed to get so many living cats to theDarkForest?” 
“We can help.” A mew sounded from the edge of the hollow. 
Shadowsight turned, surprised to see Flurry padding toward the group. He’d forgotten the Sisters were here. They’d been silent while the Clan cats discussed what to do next. 
The ginger-and-white she-cat stopped at the edge ofthe group. Snow and Sunrise followed her, their long fur rippling. “We sang Bristlefrost and Shadowsight into the Dark Forest,” Flurry reminded them. “We can do the same forothers.” 
“Thankyou.” Bramblestardipped his head gratefully. He caught Leafstar’s eye. “But we mustn’t send a large patrol. 
Shadowsight is right about the Dark Forest. It’s shrinking fast. We have to act quickly,but wisely. Asmallpatrolhas a better chance of getting in undetected and moving quickly oncethey get there.” 
Leafstarnodded.“Thefewercats werisk,thebetter.” 
“Who should wesend?” Squirrelflight asked. 
Tigerstar frowned. “This mission is so dangerous, how can aleadersend any cat?” 
Bramblestarwhisked his tail. “Iagree. Any cat who goes must volunteer.” 
Ivypool’s eyes widened eagerly.“I’llgo—” 
“No.” Bramblestar cut her off. “Your kit is already there. Wecannot riskyou too.” 
“Then let me.” 
Shadowsight blinked in surprise as Squirrelflight stepped forward. Hadn’t she seen enough of the Dark Forest? 
“I want to be the one to finish this thing with Ashfur.” Squirrelflight’s mewwas unwavering.“Onceand forall.” 
Shock showed in Bramblestar’s ruffled pelt. “There’s no way you’re going near Ashfur again, not after everything he’s put you through.” His eyes glistened. “You knownone of this is your fault, don’t you? You don’t have anything to prove.” 
“I know,” Squirrelflight answered. “Everything Ashfur’s done—taking over your body, punishing codebreakers, kidnapping me—they were allhis choices. He blames me for rejecting him,but that’s no excuseforhis cruelty.That’s why I have to go. He has to see that there can be no reward for his actions, and I have to show him that he has no power overme,overany ofus. I’ve had enough ofbeing scared of him and trying to appease him. He’s tried to ruin my life, both when he was alive and after he died—and that gives me the right to be the cat who puts an end to his miserable existence.” 
Shadowsight felt a rush of admiration for the ThunderClan deputy. After everything she’d been through, shewas stillready to fight. 
The sound of shifting paws pulled Shadowsight’s gaze back to Graystripe. The long-haired ThunderClan elder was finally looking up, his face set in a determined expression as he padded past Bramblestar and looked Squirrelflight in the eye. “That’s fair.” His mew seemed to rumble around the hollow. “But it would be playing right into Ashfur’s paws.” Squirrelflight blinked backat himas he went on. “Don’t you thinkhe’d be pleased to knowthat he’d become such a burr in yourpelt that you’d riskyourlifeto facehim?” 
Squirrelflight’s gazeclouded.“But Ihaveto do this—” 
“No, you don’t,” Graystripe told her. “It’s not just you that Ashfur wants; it’s revenge. He wants to make all the Clans—but especially ThunderClan—suffer for what happened to him when he was alive. To beat him, to truly win, we must do more than survive. We must thrive. We must grow stronger, and prove that we are better warriors than he could everbe.” His gaze burned into Squirrelflight’s. “And to do that, we need you to survive. We can’t risk losing you in a battle with Ashfur, on his territory. Think how much satisfaction that would give him.” Squirrelflight glanced away,clearly unable to argue.“You must stay here,” Graystripe mewed, “with Bramblestar. You must stay and show Ashfur that you and ThunderClan will survive whateverhe tries to do.You aretoo valuableforus to lose.” 
Squirrelflight gazed fora moment at Graystripe.Then she stretched hermuzzle toward himand nuzzled hernose gently into his thick mane. She pulled away. “Okay,” she agreed. “I’llstay behind.But,ifIdon’t go,who will?” 
Graystripe’s eyes grew round, amusement glittering in them.“Isn’t it obvious?” 
Squirrelflight looked puzzled. 
“Me,ofcourse,” Graystripetold her. 
Bramblestarstarted forward.“You’re too old—” 
Graystripe waved him back with a flick of his tail. “The Tribe told me that I stillhad an important role to play in the Clan’s fate. This must be it. I can feel it. My heart tells me this is thetime.” 
Shadowsight’s paws tingled. This great warrior was volunteering to riskhis life forhis Clan.He felt anewrush of affection for the old tom. ThunderClan was lucky to have him. 
Squirrelflight glanced at Bramblestar. The ThunderClan leaderseemed to swallow, then dipped his head. “Allright,” he told Graystripe. “Ifit’s something you feelyou must do,I won’t stop you.” 
Squirrelflight straightened. “If you must go, I want you to give amessageto Ashfur.” 
As she leaned closer and whispered into his ear, Shadowsight strained to make out what she said, but her mewwas so soft no cat but Graystripecould hearher. 
At last, she pulled away. “Promise you’ll tell him those exact words.” 
Graystripedipped his head.“Ipromise.Iwill.” 
Bramblestar’s tailwas twitching. “You must also promise to get out of there if it looks like things aren’t going our way.” 
Graystripe met his leader’s gaze. “I can’t promise that,” he mewed. “Ashfurhas had his way forfartoo long. I’mnot returning untilhe’s been defeated.” 
Dread tugged at Shadowsight’s heart. The battle ahead seemed suddenly more realthan ever.He looked at Tigerstar. “We’re not going to let Graystripe go in there alone, are we?” 
“Of course we’re not.” Tigerstar fluffed out his fur. “ThunderClan can’t be the only ones to send a warrior. One cat fromeach Clan must go with him.” Helooked at the other leaders. 
Leafstar frowned. “This is a big decision,” she mewed. “We must share it with our Clans. Let’s head home and discuss it,then return tomorrowwith ourvolunteers.” 
Shadowsight’s breath quickened.Tomorrow? That could be too late. He flexed his claws with frustration. It had been harder than he’d thought to persuade the leaders to send help.Hedidn’t darepress themmore. 
Flurry padded forward,hergazesharpening.“No.” 
Hope flickered in Shadowsight’s chest. Did the Sisters want themto go soonertoo? 
“You mustn’t return with yourvolunteers,” shewent on. 
Shadowsight’s heart sank. Was she going to put more obstacles in theway? 
Tigerstar glowered at Flurry. “The Sisters don’t tell the Clans what to do.” 
Flurry blinked back at him. “You want our help, don’t you?” 
“Yes,but—” 
She cut himoff.“Singing five cats into anotherrealmwill require all our concentration,” she mewed. “We can’t have any distractions.” She looked sternly around at the Clan cats.“Yourvolunteers must come alone.” 
Bramblestar glanced at Tigerstar. “We have to trust them.” 
Tigerstarshifted his paws.“Okay,” hegrunted. 
Flurry looked satisfied. “The ritual is usually performed at sunset, but we need to get the patrol there as quickly as possible. Make sure yourvolunteers are here before the sun rises.We’llneed to makeastart themoment they arriveto be surewe get themin beforefulldaylight.” 
Shadowsight sat down outside the medicine den and fluffed out his fur against the evening chill. As the stars began to show themselves above the trees, the fresh smell of dewand the musky odorof his Clanmates’dens filled his nose. The familiar scents of the ShadowClan camp comforted him, but he couldn’t help wondering what was happening to Bristlefrost and Rootspring in the DarkForest. Were they still okay? They’d been waiting so long already forhelp.Werethey beginning to thinkit might not come? 
His Clanmates were gathered in the clearing, watching Tigerstar as he stood beneath the drooping pines, his tail high. Dovewing hung back in the shadows, her eyes shimmering in the darkness. Tigerstar had explained what had happened beside the Moonpool, and the ShadowClan warriors had listened gravely as he told themwhat the Clan leaders had decided. 
Shadowsight was relieved that his Clanmates had accepted the news so easily. He’d feared they might question the information he’d brought back from the Dark Forest. But they clearly had faith in their leader, and no cat seemed to doubt that they must faceAshfurand try to break the barrierbetween StarClan and theDarkForest. 
“Any cat going into the DarkForest willriskdeath, with no hope that they’ll have a place in StarClan afterward,” Tigerstar told them. “I can’t order any warrior into that kind ofdanger,so Ineed avolunteer.” 
Nervous mews rippled around theclearing. 
“Iknowhowmuch I’masking,” Tigerstarwent on. “And ifno cat comes forward,Iwillgo myself.” 
“No!” Dovewing hurried forward,but Tigerstarmotioned herbackwith ajerkofhis muzzle. 
Stonewing called fromamong his Clanmates.“You’re our leader,” hemewed.“Wecan’t loseyou.” 
“You mustn’t riskyourlives,” Snaketooth mewed. 
“ShadowClan needs you here,” Scorchfuragreed. 
“I’llgo.” Cloverfoot padded to thefront. 
“No,let mego.” Snowbird hurried forward. 
Cinnamontail followed her. “Let me do it. Antfur is trapped there,and ifIcan help freehimfromthe DarkForest, Imust.” 
Shadowsight felt a rush ofpride. He knewhis Clanmates were brave,but he’d neverexpected so many volunteers. He wished he could be the one to go. He knew the paths and shadows ofthe DarkForest betterthan any cat here. But his injured leg was still sore, even though the herbs Puddleshine had smeared it with had eased the pain and strengthened it a little. He didn’t want to be a burden to Bristlefrost and Rootspring, as he had been before. They would need the strongest warriors possible to prevail against Ashfur. 
Still, a part of Shadowsight hated to think of Bristlefrost and Rootspring facing danger without him. And, after everything that had happened with Ashfur—how he’d formed a connection with the dark warrior and even helped himescape—he wished he could prove his loyalty again to his Clan and makethem,and his father,proud ofhim. 
Tigerstar gazed gratefully at Cloverfoot, Snowbird, and Cinnamontail.“Thankyou.” 
“I’lldo it!” 
Shadowsight’s heart seemed to miss a beat as he saw Lightleap pushing her way to the front. No! The mission, which had seemed dangerous before, seemed suddenly deadly. He limped forward as his littermate stopped in front oftheirfather. 
“Let me go,” shemewed.“Ican do it.IknowIcan.” 
Tigerstar’s ears twitched uncomfortably. 
Shadowsight pushed past his Clanmates as Lightleap went on. 
“Cloverfoot can’t go,” she mewed earnestly. “She’s our deputy. We can’t manage without her. Snowbird is a great warrior, but she’s nearly an elder. It’s too dangerous for her. And Cinnamontail has learned a lot since she joined ShadowClan, but she hasn’t been practicing battle moves with her parents since she was a tiny kit like I have. I’m a good warrior.” She glanced back at Stonewing, blinking eagerly at herformermentor.“Aren’t I?” 
The white tom nodded. His dark blue eyes glittered as though he was torn between pride and fear. “You were one ofmy best apprentices,” he mewed. 
“See?” Lightleap looked eagerly at herfather. 
Griefcut through Tigerstar’s gaze. 
“You can’t say no just because I’myour kit,” Lightleap pressed. “I’m strong and I’m clever and I know almost as many battlemoves as you now.” 
“She’s right,Tigerstar.” Pouncestep padded forward and glanced affectionately at her sister. “I don’t envy any Dark Forest warrior who gets in her way. She’s got strong claws. Shecould teardown that barrierin no time.” 
Lightleap puffed out herchest.“Let medo this.Please.” 
In theshadows,Dovewing’s eyes werewidewith fear. 
As Tigerstar hesitated, Shadowsight slipped around the edge of the clearing and stopped beside his mother. “He can’t say no,” he whispered. “It would look like he’s protecting his kin abovehis Clanmates.” 
“I know,” Dovewing mewed huskily. “But why did she haveto volunteer?” 
“She knows she can do it.” Shadowsight realized that he’d been so wrapped up in becoming a medicine cat that he’d hardly noticed what a brave, strong warrior his littermate had become. 
Murmurs rippled through theClan. 
“She’s thefastest hunterI’veseen,” Whorlpelt mewed. 
Flowerstemnodded. “She defeated me in battle practice last moon.” 
“Lightleap!” Berryheart called out his denmate’s name. 
Gullswoop and Slatefurjoined in.“Lightleap!Lightleap!” 
In a moment,the camp was echoing with hername as her Clanmates shouted theirsupport. 
Tigerstar’s pelt ruffled uneasily. Shadowsight felt Dovewing tremblebesidehim. 
“He’ll have to let her go,” she whispered, her mew breaking. She buried hermuzzle in Shadowsight’s fur. “Iwas so thankful to have my son back …but now I might lose a daughter.” 
Shadowsight’s throat tightened. He’d seen the horrors oftheDarkForest.Heknewwhat Ashfurwas prepared to do to have his revenge on the Clans. The dark warrior would not spare Shadowsight’s brave littermate just because she was young. He wished he could tellLightleap not to go. But howcould hestop her? 
“Lightleap! Lightleap!” Her Clanmates were still calling her name, their eyes shining with pride. There was nothing Shadowsight could do.TheClan had spoken. 


Chapter 
9 


Bristlefrost followed the Dark Forest warriors between the trees. She hung back,keeping themat the edge ofhervision even as she paused to scan the forest.She didn’t trust them. This could be a trap. What if they were leading her straight to Ashfur? 
Maggottail glanced over his shoulder. “Keep up,” he growled. 
She narrowed her eyes but padded after him. Right now, this was her best option. These cats knew how to reach the barrier and she didn’t. She wished she had a spirit cat’s sensitivity to the pull of StarClan so that she could at least tellifthey were leading herin theright direction. 
Maggottail nudged Redwillow sharply out of the way and hopped overa slippery tree root. Redwillowglowered at him but said nothing, pushing in front of Sparrowfeather instead. Sparrowfeather’s hackles lifted and she nipped Redwillow’s tail as he passed. Were all Dark Forest patrols this mean to each other?Bristlefrost pressed backashudder. I guess they’re not here because they’re kind. They must have done something bad when they were alive to end up in the Dark Forest—something really bad, if StarClan had rejected them yet taken in a cat like Ashfur. She comforted herself with the thought that, unlike the first Tigerstar, they hadn’t been evilenough to inspirenursery tales. 
She padded after them, the fog pressing in the distance as she picked her way around twisted roots and black puddles. Her belly churned with unease. There didn’t seem to be a stretch of forest left where darkwater hadn’t seeped into the ditches and hollows. 
“I’mnot sureweshould bedoing this.” 
Maggottail’s mewdrifted on the stale air. 
Doing what? Bristlefrost quickened herstep to close the gap between herand theDarkForest warriors. 
“If Ashfur catches us, we can just say we’ve taken her prisoner,” Redwillowmewed. 
They didn’t seemto care ifshe could hearthem. Her tail ruffled. There was no reason why they should. She was outnumbered and on enemy territory.What could shedo? 
“Do you think she’s really telling the truth?” Sparrowfeatherglanced backat Bristlefrost. 
“There are plenty of reasons why she’d lie,” Maggottail mewed.“Afterall,shedoesn’t want us to stealherbody.” 
“But we tried already,” Sparrowfeather reminded him. “It didn’t work.” 
“Maybe we were doing it wrong,” Maggottail mewed. “Perhaps it only works in the living forest.” 
Bristlefrost’s whiskers twitched in amusement. Perhaps these mouse-brains werestarting to understand. 
“We might need to get rid of her spirit first,” Redwillow suggested. 
“I suppose no cat can have two spirits in one body.” Maggottail agreed. “Perhaps …” The Dark Forest warrior lowered his voice now. What was so bad that he finally feared being overheard? Bristlefrost hurried to catch up, straining to hear as he went on in a hushed mew. “Perhaps weneed to killherfirst.” 
Achillran down herspine. 
“If we kill her, we’ll lose our chance to help the Clans,” Sparrowfeathermewed. 
Maggottail scowled at her. “Why do you want to help them,anyway?They only hurt you when you werealive.” 
“But she says we’llsave the DarkForest, too,ifwe help them,” Sparrowfeatherreminded him. 
“We only have her word that the Dark Forest needs saving,” Maggottailargued. 
Sparrowfeather glanced at a puddle of darkwater as she hopped over it. “Explain why this is here, then. It wasn’t herebefore.” 
Bristlefrost saw Maggottail’s ears twitch. Though he didn’t want to show it, he was clearly unnerved by the changes to theDarkForest. 
Sparrowfeather went on. “I think Ashfur has been fooling us. I think his promise about new lives beside the lake is alie.” 
“But if it’s true,” Redwillow mewed hopefully, “we’ll be ableto—” 
“You just want it to be true,” Sparrowfeather mewed sharply. 
“And you don’t?” Redwillowblinked at her. 
“Of course I do, but it seems too easy.” Sparrowfeather fluffed out her fur. “I can’t help agreeing with Bristlefrost. If it’s so simple to take over the bodies of living cats, why is Ashfur here and not living beside the lake inside some Clan cat?” 
Maggottailgrunted. 
Bristlefrost felt a flutter of gratitude toward Sparrowfeather. The Dark Forest she-cat was persistent and pressed on with her argument. “I think Ashfur is stuck here just like we are,and he’s just spinning lies because he needs us to fight forhim.” 
“I’m happy to fight for him even if there’s only the slightest chanceIcan live again,” Maggottailgrowled. 
Sparrowfeather sniffed. “You just want to have another shot at becoming leader of ShadowClan. You failed when you were alive, and now you’re obsessed with getting anotherchance.” 
“I’m not obsessed,” Maggottail snapped, his hackles lifting. Bristlefrost guessed that Sparrowfeather had hit a nerve. 
Redwillow’s tailtwitched. “Before we choose which side we fight on, we should find out if Ashfur really can give us new lives. I’ve been tricked before into fighting for a leader who didn’t care whether his warriors lived or died. I’m not falling forit again, not unless Iknowthere’s a realreward at the end.” 
Bristlefrost felt a twinge of disgust. These warriors didn’t care what happened to the Dark Forest, or the other cats here; they were only interested in themselves. But perhaps she could usetheirselfishness to heradvantage. 
She caught up and fell in beside them. “There’s a huge patrol of Clan cats at the Moonpool right now,” she mewed casually. There was no harm in exaggerating. Cats like this would want to fight on the most powerful side. “They’re preparing to invadetheDarkForest to defeat Ashfur.” 
Maggottailglanced at herout ofthecornerofhis eye. 
She went on. “And they know Ashfur possessed another cat’s body, so they are looking out for suspicious behavior. Even if you could sneak out and possess the bodies of living cats, you’d be found out. There’s no way the Clans would let you live.” 
Redwillow’s tailtwitched nervously,but he didn’t speak. Sparrowfeather kept her gaze fixed on the path ahead. But Bristlefrost guessed from their silence that they were thinking about their chances. Had she planted enough doubt about whetherAshfur’s plan could succeed,even ifit were true? 
She wished that there were,at this very moment,a patrol of warriors at the Moonpool, preparing to invade the Dark Forest. But she couldn’t even be sure that Shadowsight had madeit home. 
As worry wormed beneath her pelt, she began to recognize the dark stumps that dotted the land around the barrier. Herheart quickened. They were nearly there. Tasting the air, she searched for Rootspring’s scent. Had he made it back? Was he here, waiting forher? Disappointment tugged her belly as her gaze landed on the tangled mass of vines and brambles blocking the entrance to StarClan. There was no sign of Rootspring. Her paws pricked with fear. Was he safe? 
Redwillow stopped in front of the barrier. Maggottail padded around it,sniffing curiously. 
Sparrowfeather lifted a paw and touched one of the vines. “It looks different from the last time we were here,” she mewed. “We checked it with Ashfura while ago and the vines seemed …” She hesitated, choosing her words. “Stiffer.” 
Bristlefrost narrowed hereyes.Sparrowfeatherwas right. The branches blocking the path to StarClan seemed to be sagging, as though the vines that held them were looser than when she’d been here with Rootspring and Shadowsight. And was that a gap? She padded closer and sniffed at a space that had opened in a clump of knotted brambles. Hope sparked in her fur. She fought to keep it smooth before the Dark Forest warriors noticed her excitement. Light was seeping through the gap. But why? Was it possible that the tangled branches had loosened more since they’d left? 
Maggottail blinked at Bristlefrost. “You were going to showus what hopelooked like,” hemewed sourly. 
Bristlefrost hooked a vine with her paw, feeling it give a littleas shepulled.“It looks likethis.” 
“Yeah, right.” Maggottail snorted, but Sparrowfeather was sniffing curiously at thebarrier. 
Redwillowsat backon his haunches and stared at it. “Is StarClan really on theotherside ofthis?” hemewed. 
“Yes,” Bristlefrost told him. “We spoke to a StarClan medicinecat last timeIwas here.” 
“Why should we help them?” Sparrowfeather backed away fromthebarrier.“They neverhelped us.” 
“I’mnot asking you to help them,” Bristlefrost told her. “Iwant you to help yourselves.” 
“How?” Maggottailnarrowed his eyes. 
“Ifwe can get rid ofthis barrier,the DarkForest willstop shrinking,” Bristlefrost told him. 
Sparrowfeather and Redwillow exchanged glances. Was that hopein theireyes? 
Hope! Bristlefrost’s paws tingled with excitement. Could the hopeofDarkForest cats really affect thebarrier? 
Maggottail padded closer, his nose twitching. “How do you know this barrier is the reason the Dark Forest is shrinking?” 
“It’s broken the connection between your home and StarClan’s,” Bristlefrost mewed. 
“What does StarClan have to do with us?” the gray tabby grunted. 
“StarClan and the Dark Forest balance each other.” Bristlefrost told him what Leafpool had said. She paused, reasoning it out. “I guess it’s like hills and valleys. They need each other to exist because what’s missing from one creates theother.” 
“It sounds likeabunch ofmouse-dirt to me.” 
“Think about it,” Bristlefrost pressed. “When did the DarkForest start shrinking?” 
As Maggottailfrowned,Redwillowblinked at her. 
“Ifirst noticed the waterjust before Ashfurarrived,” the mottled tomtold her. 
“And the fog appeared about the same time,” Sparrowfeathermewed. 
Bristlefrost’s tail twitched. “That was after he’d blocked the passage between StarClan and the Dark Forest.” She looked at Maggottail. He would be the hardest cat to convince. “The Dark Forest is disappearing, and StarClan will disappear too. Both you and the StarClan cats will disappearwith yourterritories.” 
Maggottail gazed into the forest. In the deep shadows, stillsome way away, pale fog drifted between the trees, and more dark water pooled around their roots. The gray tabby shivered. 
Redwillow peered through the vines. “Perhaps we should do something about it,” he murmured. 
Sparrowfeatherhooked herclaws into a vine and tried to shakeit. 
Bristlefrost’s heart quickened. Had she convinced them to help? As she watched the DarkForest warriors hopefully, avoicebeyond thebarriermade herstiffen. 
“I’mtrying,but it’s too tight.” 
She pressed her ear to the knotted brambles. It wasn’t Leafpool’s mew,but some cat was there. 
Sparrowfeather jumped away from the barrier as the vines trembled. 
Another voice sounded. “It’s no good, Needletail. They won’t shift.” 
A small gray nose appeared in a gap between the brambles. A muzzle was trying to push its way through. It pulled backinside. 
“Ouch!” Amewsounded again.“They’reprickly!” 
Bristlefrost darted to the gap and peered through.On the other side, she could see a sleek gray cat with stars in her fur.Needletail? Where had she heard that name before? She tried to remember. The older warriors had mentioned her, hadn’t they? She had been a ShadowClan warrior when the Clan had been taken over by a rogue… . The gray she-cat looked about the same age as Bristlefrost. It seemed strange to thinkshe’d lived beforeBristlefrost had been born. 
A low growlsounded behind Bristlefrost. She jerked her muzzle around. Maggottail was staring at the gap, teeth bared, his pelt bushed. Redwillow had dropped into a defensive crouch. Sparrowfeather’s eyes were wide with alarm. 
“It’s okay,” shetold them.“They’reStarClan cats.” 
Maggottailnarrowed his eyes. 
“They won’t hurt you,” she reassured him.But would he try to hurt them? “They might be able to save the Dark Forest.” 
“Who’s there?” Needletailcalled frombehind thebarrier. 
“I’m Bristlefrost.” She pressed her muzzle closer. “I’ve come fromthe living Clans. I’mhere to try and break down the barrier.” 
Needletail blinked from between the knotted brambles. “StarClan’s collapsing.” Therewas panicin hermew. 
Bristlefrost felt a jolt ofdismay. She knewparts ofit had been fading. But collapsing? The situation must be getting worse.“More cats arecoming,” she mewed quickly.“To help break down the barrier.” She hoped it was true. “We just haveto wait forthemto arrive.” 
“I don’t know if there’s time,” Needletail called. “The trees here are crumbling and the meadows are fading. 
WhateverAshfuris doing there,we need to stop him. We’re helpless here.” She poked a pawthrough the gap and began to tug at the brambles. 
Bristlefrost reached up and pulled from the other side. Somehow, she had to help Needletail make this gap big enough to climb through. If a StarClan cat could make it to the Dark Forest, it might weaken the barrier further. She glanced at the DarkForest cats. They were not the allies she would have chosen. It hadn’t been long since they’d discussed killing her so they could take over her body. But therewas no oneelsehereto ask.“Can you help me?” 
Maggottail stared at her. Sparrowfeather eyed the gap nervously. 
“Please!” Bristlefrost tugged harder, ignoring the sharp thorns jabbing at her paws. If they could hope too, she might be able to widen this gap. She strained at the brambles. “With a StarClan warrior on our side, Ashfur won’t be able to hurt you,” she told them. “And you heard what Needletailsaid. StarClan’s disappearing too now. If we don’t get her through, both StarClan and the Dark Forest might begonebeforewehavechanceto defeat him.” 
She caught Maggottail’s eye and was surprised to see longing there. Of course! she thought. It seemed strange, but it only made sense that these DarkForest cats,as evilas they might be,wanted something.Could she win themto her side ifshe promised themsomething they wanted? Certainly shecould—wasn’t that what Ashfurhad done? 
But what do they want? 
She was hit by a sudden inspiration. “Ifwe can get rid of Ashfur, maybe you could take his place.” The brambles didn’t give. She pulled harder. “Imagine ruling the Dark Forest. You could be the Clan leader you always wanted to be.” 
She turned her gaze back to the barrier, groaning as she heaved at thebrambles. 
Needletail’s claws tore at the knots, but the gap wasn’t getting any bigger. Hope is our best weapon. Bristlefrost gritted her teeth and focused on positive thoughts. Rootspring will be here soon. Shadowsight will send in a patrol. It may already be on its way. 
Could shefeelthebrambles shifting? 
Suddenly, fur brushed her flank. She jerked her muzzle around, surprised to see Maggottail pulling at the tangled branches. Redwillow hurried to join him, wrapping his paws around a vine. Happiness surged beneath Bristlefrost’s pelt as Sparrowfeather reached up beside them and began tugging at thebarrier. 
They’re helping! They’re really helping! 
Her heart pounding, Bristlefrost pulled harder. The gap whereNeedletailhad poked hermuzzlebegan to widen. 
The Dark Forest cats were strong, and the brambles around the gap continued to weaken; the vines loosened and unthreaded until the gap was wide enough for Needletailto pokeherentirehead through. 
Bristlefrost swallowed back a purr. The StarClan cat couldn’t pass all the way through yet. She tugged the brambles to one side to stretch open the gap further. Maggottail hauled at the other side. Sparrowfeather and Redwillow worked together, dragging the vines below it closer to the ground until, with a grunt, Needletail pushed hershoulders through and slithered onto theground. 
The StarClan warrior found her paws, the stars shimmering in herpelt as she shookout herfur. She glanced at the Dark Forest cats and looked puzzled. “These aren’t Clan cats.” 
“Ipersuaded some DarkForest cats to help,” Bristlefrost told her. 
Maggottailsnorted.“We decided to help.” 
Redwillow nodded. “We want to save our territory as much as you want to saveyours.” 
“Really?” Needletaillooked doubtfully at theforest. 
Bristlefrost blinked anxiously at her,hoping the StarClan warriorwouldn’t offend the DarkForest cats. AStarClan cat might not respect cats who’d been so bad in their lifetime that they’d been sent hereaftertheirdeath. 
But Needletail dipped her head low. “Thank you,” she mewed. Bristlefrost felt a rush of relief as the gray she-cat went on.“It takes bravery to stand up to acat likeAshfur.” 
Maggottail lifted his muzzle. “We can be brave,” he huffed. 
Needletailblinked at Bristlefrost.“Where’s Rootspring?” sheasked.“Leafpoolsaid hewas herewith you.” 
Bristlefrost’s heart quickened with fear. “I don’t know,” she admitted. “We split up to confuse Ashfur’s patrol. We were going to meet back here, but he hasn’t arrived yet.” She glanced toward the trees,praying he was on his way. “I hopehe’s okay.” 
Needletail swished her tail reassuringly. “I’m an old friend of his mother’s. Any kit of Violetshine’s must be as tough as old bark.I’msure he can takecareofhimself.” 
Please let her be right. Anxiety churned in Bristlefrost’s belly. He should be here by now. Had something happened to him? Suddenly she felt dizzy. The blood rushed to her paws. Am I going to pass out? As her vision blurred, she saw Rootspring’s face staring at her. He was speaking, his eyes wide with alarm. 
Bristlefrost! His voicefilled herears.Ashfur’s coming! 
Panic shrilled through her, dispelling the dizziness. She blinked at theothers.“Ashfur’s coming!” 
Redwillow’s pelt bushed. Maggottailscanned the forest, ears flattening. 
“We have to get away from here!” Needletail began to noseSparrowfeatheracross theclearing. 
But the brown tabby seemed to be frozen by fear. 
“Whereis he?” Hergazeflashed with terror. 
“I’ll head back through the barrier and fetch help,” Needletailtold them. 
“No—don’t bring any more StarClan cats yet,” Bristlefrost warned. “It’s too risky. We need to wait for the patrolfromthe Clans. If StarClan warriors die here, they’ll— you’ll—disappearforever.” 
“I know.” Needletail fixed her with a determined look. “But some things are worth fighting for, no matter the risk.” She glanced at the Dark Forest warriors. “Thank you for bringing these cats here, and for giving them hope. Whateverthey’ve done in life,theircourage proves that the spirit ofawarriorcan neverentirely belost.” 
Maggottail lifted his chin. Redwillow puffed out his chest. 
Sparrowfeather’s tailbushed.“Ican hearhim!” 
“Quick!” Bristlefrost nudged Needletail back to the barrier. In the distance,pawsteps were thrumming the earth. The darkwarriorwasn’t alone. Fromthe sound ofit,a whole patrolwas heading forthem. 
Needletail thrust her head into the gap and began to push herway through. Herhind paws scrabbled against the earth. The gap was too small. With a grunt she shoved harder. Bristlefrost tucked hershoulderunderNeedletailand helped her push. “Make the gap wider,” she told the Dark Forest warriors. 
Redwillowgrabbed abrambleand pulled at it.Maggottail tugged a vine with his teeth.Sparrowfeatherslid herpaws in besideNeedletailand tore at thegap. 
The sound of paw steps thundered closer, then slowed. Terror pressing in her throat, Bristlefrost turned to face the trees. 
Ashfur padded out. He was flanked by Sandynose, Softpelt, and Strikestone. Dappletuft and Conefoot crowded behind with Berrynose and Rosepetal. Even though she’d known her former mentor was among the spirit cats in Ashfur’s thrall, Bristlefrost’s heart sank at the sight of Rosepetal. She had been a good mentor, and an understanding ear when Bristlefrost had thought her heart would break over Stemleaf. And was that Stemleaf and Willowshine at the rear? Nowherheart seemed to drop like a stone in herchest. She’d hoped they’d escaped,but Ashfur had clearly recaptured them. 
She unsheathed her claws. Sparrowfeather, Maggottail, and Redwillow let go their hold on the vines. Bristlefrost could smelltheirfear-scent as they turned to faceAshfur. 
Ashfur’s eyes narrowed to slits as he saw them. He flattened his ears.“Traitors,” hesnarled. 
At that, Needletailgave up struggling and slid back out ofthebarrier.Sheglared defiantly at Ashfur. 
As Ashfur met the StarClan warrior’s gaze, his hackles lifted. “Ignore the traitors,” he hissed to his patrol. 
Bristlefrost sawnowthat there was a DarkForest cat among them—a scrawny black tom she didn’t recognize. “I’ll deal with those cowards later.” His tail flicked ominously behind him.“Killthe StarClan intruder.” 


Chapter 
10 


Rootspring looked out from the shadows of his prison. He could see, in the gloomy clearing outside, Mapleshade lounging on the darkearth. The tortoiseshell-and-white she-cat was stretched out, washing her foreleg with long, rhythmic laps, while Rushtooth stared idly out into the forest. 
Houndleap had hurried afterAshfur,and Rootspring had wondered whether he could fight his way out with only Rushtooth and Mapleshade left to guard him. But just a few moments after Ashfur had left, Darkstripe had padded from the trees with Silverhawk at his tail. There was no way Rootspring could take on four warriors alone, so now he watched them, hoping for a distraction that might give him chance to escape. But with every moment that passed, his fear for Bristlefrost grew. Had Ashfur reached the StarClan barrier yet? Had he found her waiting there? His belly tightened at thethought. 
“Move.” Darkstripe nosed Silverhawkaway froma patch of smooth earth and settled down, half closing his eyes as though he were lazing in a pool of sunshine. Silverhawk eyed himresentfully. 
Rootspring padded back into the shadow of his prison. The voice in his head had been silent since it had sent Ashfurracing forthebarrier. 
Frowning, Rootspring reached into his thoughts. You’re trapped in here with me, he told the voice. Any ideas? He flexed his claws, frustrated by the silence. Why start something you can’t finish? The voice still said nothing. As far as I can tell, all you’ve done is put Bristlefrost in more danger. And I can’t even help— 
At last,thevoiceinterrupted.I’mworking on it. 
Working on it! Rootspring paced irritably. Did the voice knowwhat it was doing? Was it even on his side? Why did I trust you? 
The voice answered.Because I’m trying to help you. 
Rootspring swallowed back anger. I’d rather you were helping Bristlefrost. She’s in danger. 
Get Darkstripe’sattention. 
Rootspring felt atwingeofalarm.Why? 
Just trust me! the voice snapped. This is your best chance. 
Doubtfully, Rootspring padded to the opening between the boulders. “Darkstripe.” He forced back a shiver as the tabby warriorturned his head and looked at him. “I…Ineed to speakto you.” 
Slowly, Darkstripe got to his paws. Mapleshade didn’t move, but she watched as Darkstripe padded to the cave entrance. Rushtooth pricked his ears. Silverhawk narrowed his eyes with interest. 
“What do you want?” Darkstripe peered into the shadowoftheprison,his eyes glittering. 
Repeat what I tell you. 
Rootspring forced his fur not to ruffle as the voice sounded again in his head. His heart pounded as he began to speakthe words ringing in his thoughts. “Are you happy being Ashfur’s lackey?” He met Darkstripe’s gaze, hoping the fear that he felt surging beneath his pelt didn’t show in his eyes as thetabby warriorscowled backat him. 
“I’mno cat’s lackey,” Darkstripesnapped. 
“Really?” Rootspring pressed on,repeating thewords as he heard them. “First Tigerstar, now Ashfur.” Suspicion sharpened Darkstripe’s gaze, but he didn’t reply. “Following orders is what got you killed.Aren’t you evergoing to stand up foryourself?” 
Finally, the fur along Darkstripe’s spine lifted. “What do you knowabout it?” 
“Enough,” Rootspring mewed. The truth was he knew nothing about it.Hebarely understood what hewas saying. 
“How can a kit like you know about Tigerstar?” Darkstripedemanded. 
Rootspring repeated the voice’s words. “Ashfur is just as evilas Tigerstar was. And he cares even less about what happens to thecats who fight forhim.” 
“You knownothing!” Darkstripe growled,his expression hardening. 
“You once said,” Rootspring went on, “that every cat in the forest could turn to crow-food forallyou cared.” 
The words seemed to hit Darkstripelikeclaws.Helooked stunned.“I—Ineversaid that to you!” 
Rootspring ignored him. “But you’re following Ashfur,” he went on. “Why do you care so much what that fox-heart wants? Why would you help him, of all cats? Don’t you realize he’s leading you to yourown destruction?” 
Angerreturned to Darkstripe’s gaze.Hethrust his muzzle closer.“Ashfuris a means to an end,” he hissed.“I’llbeable to live again once he leads us to the living Clans. Afterthat, Idon’t care what happens to him. Idon’t care what happens to any cat.I’llbe aliveagain.That’s allIcareabout.” 
As Rootspring stared backat him, trying not to tremble, Darkstripe’s face froze. “Your eyes!” The tabby warrior was staring at Rootspring in horror. “What’s happened to your eyes?Is this atrick?” 
He lashed out with a paw,and Rootspring ducked just in timeto avoid its thorn-sharp claws. 
Panic sparked in his pelt. Are you sure you know what you’re doing? Rootspring demanded, but the voice didn’t answer. 
Mapleshade had gotten to her paws and was padding closer. Rushtooth and Silverhawk watched Darkstripe, their eyes sharp with interest. 
“Look at his eyes!” Darkstripe hissed at them, backing away. 
Rootspring’s chest tightened. What did he mean? He blinked. What had happened to his eyes? He could see okay. They felt the same. What’s happening? he asked the voice. 
Keep going, thevoice ordered. 
“If you follow Ashfur, you’ll never have a chance to live.” As Rootspring repeated the words,fearspiraled in his belly.Pleaselet thiswork! 
Darkstripe curled his lip, the fear in his eyes turning to fury. 
Mapleshadepadded closer. 
The voice answered.There’s going to be a fight! 
I can’t fight them! Rootspring stared at the fourwarriors. I’m outnumbered. 
It’s okay. The voice sounded calmeven as Rootspring’s thoughts whirled.I’ll fight them. 
Why did this voicethinkhecould fight thesewarriors? 
I’ve been a warrior for far longer than you, the voice went on.I can win this. 
Rootspring hesitated. Darkstripe was watching himlike a hunterwatching prey. 
The voice spoke again. Let me take over your body and I’ll get us out of here. 
The voice wanted to take overhis body?Thewords sent panic pulsing through Rootspring’s paws. Was this just a 
trickto let Ashfurseizecontrolofhim? Trust me, the voice mewed, I’m not Ashfur. I want to get 
you to safety so you can save Bristlefrost. 
Rootspring hesitated.How do Iknow you’renot lying? 
Why would I lie to the cat who saved my daughter and her mate? 
Achillran down Rootspring’s spine. Was this voice …? Rootspring swallowed, hardly daring to finish the thought. Are you … Firestar? 
Yes. The voice spoke with a clarity that rang in Rootspring’s mind like the call of a blackbird. Have you heard of me? 
Of course he had. Firestar was the cat who had restored contact between SkyClan and the other four Clans, back when SkyClan still lived in the gorge. There was no cat beside the lake who hadn’t heard tales about the legendary leaderofThunderClan. 
I won’t let any harm come to you, the voice promised. But you have to trust me. I want to save you, and Bristlefrost, and all the other cats threatened by Ashfur. 
Rootspring felt the fur lift along his spine. Firestar was here to help him. He didn’t know whether to feelrelieved or terrified. But he knew that this was his best chance to escape and get to Bristlefrost beforeAshfurfound her. 
Pressing backfear,heclosed his eyes.You can takeover my body … just for a little while. He forced himself to relax, and in the dimshadows behind his eyes,he thought he saw a flame-colored pelt moving toward him. Then darkness swamped him. 
Firestarbreathed in the musty stench ofthe DarkForest. After so long in the sweet-scented meadows of StarClan’s hunting grounds, he found the pungent odor of rotting leaves sickening. He stretched his claws, getting a feel for Rootspring’s body,then scrambled up and faced Darkstripe. 
The tabby warrior was staring at him, confusion clouding his eyes. Mapleshade hung back, ears twitching with interest, while Rushtooth and Silverhawk peered around theedgeoftheboulders. 
The sensation of real fur ruffling along his flanks and real paws at his command set Firestar’s heart racing. This body was smaller and fluffier than his own, and pain throbbed in Rootspring’s wounds. Firestar would have to make the most of the young warrior’s strengths to compensate for his injuries, but as he shifted his weight, he sensed powerin the muscles beneath Rootspring’s pelt,and lightness ofmovement in his limbs. 
“Hi, Darkstripe.” Firestar looked past the tabby warrior. “Hi, Mapleshade.” He glanced at the other warriors. “Rushtooth.” He’d met this tom in the Dark Forest before. “Howareyou?” 
Rushtooth bared his teeth but didn’t reply, and Firestar flicked his gaze toward Silverhawk. 
“It’s good to seeyou.” 
Silverhawksnarled nervously. 
“Why are you following Ashfur?” Firestar asked them. “You must knowenough about himto realizehedoesn’t care about you. His plan to cut offStarClan fromthe living Clans willdestroy theDarkForest.” 
Darkstripe answered for the Dark Forest cats. “Who cares?” he growled. “We’ll be safe in the bodies of living cats. What happens to the Dark Forest after that won’t matter.” 
Firestar blinked at Darkstripe. He’d known the tabby warriorsince he’d joined ThunderClan as an apprentice,and he knew Darkstripe wasn’t a fool. “Is that what Ashfur told you?” 
“He’s proved it,” Darkstripe hissed. “He took over Bramblestar’s body.” 
Firestar snorted. “He slipped into a leader’s body between lives,” he mewed. “That doesn’t mean every cat in the DarkForest can stealany body they like.” 
Rushtooth shifted uneasily.“Why not?” 
Firestar shrugged. “If it were true, why aren’t you already beside thelake?Why is Ashfurmaking you wait?” 
Mapleshade whisked her tail. “He needs us to punish the Clans first.” Her whiskers quivered excitedly. “And I’m happy to help himwith that. Ashfur’s vengeance willbe my vengeance. I want to see them cut off from their precious StarClan.Iwant to seethemdestroyed.” 
Firstar pressed back rage, surprised at its power. It had been a long time since he’d felt like this. He struggled to control the surging anger and forced himself to return Mapleshade’s gaze calmly. “If you hate the Clans so much, why do you want to liveamong themagain?” 
“Shut up!” Darkstripethrust his muzzlecloser. 
Behind him, Rushtooth and Silverhawk were looking uneasy. 
Firestar didn’t flinch. “Let this young warrior go,” he mewed. 
Darkstripefrowned.“Which young warrior?” 
“Rootspring.” 
“But you’re Rootspring!” 
Mapleshade pushed in front of Darkstripe. “Stop trying to trickus.” 
“I don’t need to trick you,” Firestar told her. “I’m warning you. If you don’t let Rootspring go, you’ll have to facetheliving Clans and StarClan.” 
A low growl rumbled in Mapleshade’s throat. “StarClan?” she sneered. “Ashfur’s going to destroy them, and we’regoing to help him.” 
“The only thing you’re going to destroy is yourselves,” Firestar told him. “Ashfur is a liar. Rootspring is trying to save you.Let himgo.” 
“What do you mean, let him go?” Darkstripe nosed Mapleshade out of the way. “If you’re not Rootspring, who are you?” 
Firestarsquared his shoulders and felt themuscles ripple along his flanks.“Haven’t you guessed?” 
Rushtooth backed away. Silverhawk edged behind Mapleshade. 
Darkstripe stared at him. He lifted his head, peering down into Firestar’s eyes. That’s right, Firestarthought with satisfaction.You’ve seen these eyes before, haven’t you? 
Darkstripe’s eyes slitted with disgust as he seemed, at last, to understand who he was talking to. “Firestar.” His teeth glistened as hebared them.“What are you doing here? This is no placeforakittypet.” 
“This is no place for any decent cat,” Firestar growled back. 
Darkstripe snorted. “Even dead, you can’t stop yourself frommeddling in othercats’affairs?” 
“Because I protect the Clans,and I always will.” Firestar tooka step closer.He’d been tripping overDarkstripefortoo many moons.It was timeheshowed himthat theDarkForest could neverwin against theClans. 
Darkstripe flattened his ears.“You tookTigerstarfromus twice! Now I’m going to destroy you once and for all.” Satisfaction gleamed in his eyes. “I’mgoing to turn you and that littlepest Rootspring into crow-food.” 
Firestar unsheathed his claws. He’d thought he’d never have to fight again. But if these cats wouldn’t listen to reason, he had no choice. With a yowl, he leaped through the prison opening and flung himselfat Darkstripe. 
The tabby warriorhad lost noneofthestrength he’d had in life.As Firestarhooked his claws into Darkstripe’s pelt,he felt muscle harden beneath the fur. But Rootspring’s body was powerful,and hewas able to thrust Darkstripebackward and aim a hefty blow at his muzzle. As his claws raked Darkstripe’s jaw,hesawSilverhawkbackaway. 
Firestarsmelled blood, and the scent made his borrowed pelt bristle with energy. He eyed the others, ready for their attack, but Rushtooth seemed to be rooted to the ground, and Mapleshade simply watched,unmoving,curiosity in her gaze. 
Darkstripe shook the blood from his chin and swung around, his eyes black with fury. Firestar had first seen that fury when he’d been an apprentice in ThunderClan. But he wasn’t an apprentice anymore. He had battle skills now, which he’d learned and practiced over countless moons. Even in this unfamiliar body, he knew he was ready for this fight. Rootspring’s paws obeyed him with a speed and strength that madehis heart quicken with pleasure. 
As Darkstripe attacked, Firestar lunged low and fast. He sankhis teeth into the tabby warrior’s foreleg and tugged it from beneath him. Darkstripe thumped onto his side, and Firestargrabbed himby the shoulders and churned his hind paws against his belly. Satisfaction welled in his chest as Darkstripe yowled with rage. He’d forgotten the thrill of battle. Blood pulsed in his ears and excitement set his pelt bristling. This was too easy. He loosened his grip and let Darkstripewrigglefree. 
Darkstripe scrambled to his paws and circled him like a fox. 
Firestar invited him to attack with a flick of his tail. “Comeon,then.” 
Relish gleamed in Darkstripe’s eyes.Heleaped at Firestar with a snarl. Firestar ducked, but Darkstripe anticipated him, lashing out low with a forepaw that caught Firestar beneath his eye. The shock of it made Firestar gasp. He felt claws sink into his shoulders as Darkstripe hauled him backward and knocked his hind paws out fromunderhimwith a skillful kick. 
Panic flared fora moment in Firestar’s chest. He fell,and pain seared his leg as rough earth grazed Rootspring’s wounds.Firestarfought backnausea.He couldn’t lose—but Darkstripe was on him. The tabby’s paw slammed into Firestar’s muzzle, jerking it sideways. Blood welled in Firestar’s eyes and dripped fromhis nose. 
Young Rootspring’s nose, he remembered. I must protect Rootspring. Summoning every bit of strength, Firestar heaved Darkstripe away, scrambling from beneath him and finding his paws. He turned on the tabby and began slashing at him, hitting out with blowafterblow,so fast that Darkstripe couldn’t find his balance. Backing away, the tabby dropped into a defensive crouch and flung out a desperatepaw. 
Firestarknocked it away and leaped on top ofDarkstripe. Digging his claws into the tabby’s shoulders,he pinned him to the earth.“Give up!” he snarled.“Ashfurwilldestroy you and theDarkForest.” 
“I’d rather be destroyed than surrender to you.” Darkstripe’s hiss was sharp with pain. But no fearshowed in it. 
Firestar felt Darkstripe pushing beneath him, strength wound into every muscle. This warrior won’t stop until he’s killed me. Asickening senseofforeboding flooded his belly. And if I go, so does Rootspring. There was only one way to end this fight.Thethought ofit madehimshudder. 
But he would do what he had to do. A true warrior always did—and hehad neverstopped being awarrior. 
He thrust his jaws close to Darkstripe’s ear. “You’ve chosen this,” he hissed. “You’re going to suffer the same fate as Tigerstar.” This time he wouldn’t give the tabby warrior a chance. He sank his teeth deep into Darkstripe’s neck and pressed down until he felt bone snap between them. 
Darkstripe’s body fell limp beneath him. Firestar closed his eyes.This warriorwould neverharmany cat again.He let his jaws loosen,regret tugging in his belly as his battle rage faded. Had he hoped,allthese moons,that Darkstripe would eventually learn the error of his ways? He straightened and stepped back fromthe warrior’s body. It was already fading into the gloom. 
Firestarlooked around.Mapleshadewas gone. 
Rushtooth was staring at himwith wide,frightened eyes. He backed away. “I don’t want anything to do with this.” The light brown tomturned and hared into the forest,his tail dipping behind himas hedisappeared among thebrambles. 
Silverhawk’s ears twitched nervously.“Is it true?” 
Firestar looked at him, the taste of blood still in his mouth.“Is what true?” 
“Has Ashfur been lying to us?” Silverhawk’s eyes narrowed. “Is it really impossible for us to live beside the lake again?” 
Firestar held his gaze. “The only thing that’s true right now is that if Ashfur has his way, the Dark Forest will disappear along with StarClan, and you will disappear with it.” 
Silverhawk glanced at Darkstripe’s body. It was only a faint outlinenow—almost gone. 
“You can help me stop Ashfur’s plan,” Firestartold him. “Join meand help memakesuretheDarkForest survives.” 
“Why would you do that?” 
“To saveStarClan and theliving Clans.” 
Silverhawk hesitated. Then he dipped his head. “Okay,” he mewed. 
Firestarwatched the DarkForest warrior. Could he really trust him? “You must promisenot to harmRootspring when I let himreturn to his body.” 
“Ipromise.” 
“Swear it,” Firestarordered. 
“Iswearon Emberdawn’s spirit,” Silverhawkmewed. 
“Emberdawn?” Firestarhad neverheard ofher. 
“Shewas my mate,” Silverhawkexplained.“Shedied.” 
Firestar hadn’t seen Emberdawn in StarClan, and by the sound of it she wasn’t here in the Dark Forest with Silverhawk either. He wondered if the mysterious she-cat had had anything to do with Silverhawkbeing here now,but there wasn’t time to ask questions. He’d promised Rootspring that he’d protect Bristlefrost. It was time to give the young warriorhis body back. 
Firestar closed his eyes, his paws pricking with apprehension. He was entrusting his future, and the future of every StarClan warrior, to an inexperienced young tom. But Rootspring had come this far. He had courage and strength. Firestar was going to have to believe that Rootspring could finish what he started. He had to believe that StarClan would be safe. Focusing on the warmth of the pelt enfolding him,helet his thoughts slideinto darkness. 
Rootspring felt pain in his leg. His muzzle stung and his 
muscles ached afresh.Had Firestarmanaged to fight his way free of the boulder prison? He opened his eyes, fearful of what he would see. He was standing in the clearing. Mapleshade and Rushtooth were nowhere to be seen. Darkstripe was nowhere to be found. Had Firestar killed them, or driven themaway? Rootspring shivered, suddenly awareofthe tasteofblood in his mouth. 
Silverhawk was staring at him, his pelt smooth. Rootspring began to back away before realizing there was no threat in the gray tabby’s eyes. 
“Whereis Darkstripe?” Rootspring asked. 
“Firestarkilled him,” Silverhawktold him. 
Rootspring’s pelt ruffled uneasily. His claws had killed a warrior.Could they do it again,without Firestar? 
Silverhawk went on. “He asked me to help him fight Ashfur.” 
“Did you agree?” 
“Yes.” Silverhawk glanced into the forest. “What do we do now?” 
Rootspring drewin a long, slowbreath. He knewexactly what he needed to do. “We find Bristlefrost,” he mewed, heading forthe trees. 

Chapter 
11 


Bristlefrost curled her claws into the earth as the spirit cats and the Dark Forest tom fanned out around Ashfur. The satisfaction gleaming in the dark warrior’s eyes sent rage pulsing through her. His order rang in her ears. Kill the StarClan intruder. 
Stemleaf dropped into an attack crouch. Willowshine flattened her ears. Their eyes were clouded like ice-covered water. As Berrynose and Softpelt edged forward,Bristlefrost moved in front of Needletail. There was no way she was going to let any cat harmtheStarClan warrior. 
“Wait.” Ashfurflicked his tail. 
Berrynose and Softpelt halted.Stemleafand Willowshine froze as the other spirit cats watched in silence. Bristlefrost searched Stemleaf’s gaze, hoping to see some sign of recognition, but he just stared back at her blankly, his ears swiveled toward Ashfuras hewaited forthenext order. 
Ashfur’s gazefixed on Needletail.“You don’t haveto die here,” hemewed smoothly.“You can join me.” 
Needletail stepped from behind Bristlefrost, her hackles lifting.She glared at thedarkwarrior.“Never.” 
“Really?” He widened his eyes innocently.“But we’re so much alike,you and I.” 
“I’mnothing likeyou,” Needletailsnarled. 
Ashfurdidn’t seemto hear.“You nevertruly belonged in StarClan,” he mewed. “You were out of your depth there, just like I was. You never really believed in the Clans. You saw how weak their rules made them. You’re a rebellike me. This is whereyou belong.Ican giveyou lifeagain.” 
Needletail showed her teeth. “I’ve heard empty words like yours before,” she hissed. “I won’t be taken in by them again.” 
“Okay.” Ashfur shrugged. “Then you’ll die here and never return to StarClan.” He tipped his head. “Are the Clans worth it?” 
“Always,” Needletailspat. 
Bristlefrost’s heart sank as she noticed Maggottail, Redwillow, and Sparrowfeather edging away fromher. Were they going to desert herto save themselves? 
Then she would have to face this alone. “Why killher?” she asked Ashfuras she padded forward. “There’s no need. StarClan’s crumbling. Why not let Needletailgo backand be with herClanmates to end hertime?” 
Ashfur’s lip curled.“She’s nevergoing back.” 
Bristlefrost saw anxiety flit across the dark warrior’s gaze.Why? She narrowed hereyes.He’s scared. She glanced at Maggottail, Sparrowfeather, and Redwillow. These Dark Forest warriors had helped her get Needletail through the barrier. And Stemleaf and Willowshine had escaped his control for a while. Bristlefrost lifted her chin. His plan is falling apart and he doesn’t want StarClan to know. If Needletail made it back and told StarClan that Ashfur’s control over the Dark Forest wasn’t as strong as he pretended, they’d send more warriors. He knows he’s not strong enough to fight the whole of StarClan. 
She leaned closer to Needletail. “You have to make it back,” she breathed in the StarClan warrior’s ear. “You have to tellthemthat Ashfuris weak.” 
“They already know he’s weak.” Needletail’s eyes glittered with menace as she stared at the dark warrior. “I’m not running away.” She padded toward Ashfur. “I’ve got this.” 
Ashfur blinked at her calmly, but his pelt pricked uneasily along his spine.“Killher.” 
On his order,Stemleafleaped forward. Berrynose lunged. Bristlefrost reared to defend Needletail. But the StarClan warriorturned and leaped foratree.She landed on the trunk, dangled by her claws for a heartbeat, and then shot up it, fasterthan asquirrel. 
Stemleaf stared up at her blankly. Berrynose looked puzzled,as though wondering who had stolen his prey. 
Pelt spiking with rage, Ashfur watched as Needletail scurried frombranch to branch and then leaped into the next tree.“Go afterher,you mouse-brains!” 
Like sleepers waking, Berrynose gave chase; Stemleaf scrambled after him. As Ashfur’s forehead furrowed in concentration, the other spirit cats began to climb too, leaping into the branches around them as though weightless. In a moment, the trees were alive with cats. Conefoot pushed past Rosepetal. Softpelt leaped over Strikestone and flung herself into the next tree. Berrynose raced along a branch that reached deep into the withered oakbeside it. Allaround Bristlefrost, branches shivered and dying leaves rustled as the spirit cats chased after Needletail. 
Ashfur focused on them, his tail stiff, his body motionless as he willed themonward. Clearly,he was making his rage theirs. They raced recklessly through the trees, not seeming to care that a misstep could send them falling to theirdeaths. 
Bristlefrost could see Needletail’s lithe frame streaking along a branch in the distance. The stars in her pelt glimmered between the leaves. Berrynose was catching up. Stemleaf had taken a route that shadowed hers, and now he pulled ahead and turned,ready to cut across herpath. 
Alarmshrilled in Bristlefrost’s pelt as the toms closed in on the StarClan warrior. There was only one way she could stop themfromhere.I must break Ashfur’s control. 
She leaped at Ashfur, hooking her claws into his shoulders. He felt as stiff as dead prey and fell as she hurtled into him. She clung on, glancing up at the trees, panic clutching at her heart as she saw Stemleaf stumble. 
Don’t fall! High above, Berrynose faltered, as though suddenly aware of the drop beneath him. But Needletail didn’t hesitate. Running faster, the StarClan warrior leaped into anothertreeand raced along abranch to thenext. 
Stemleaf! Holding fast to Ashfur, Bristlefrost’s breath caught as Stemleaf’s paw slipped andhe slitheredfromhis branch. She didn’t want the spirit cats to get hurt! She tensed, relief swamping her as Stemleaf grabbed the branch belowand dangled by his forepaws. 
She felt the stiffness leave Ashfur as she clung to him. He twitched, and suddenly he was like a fish writhing beneath her. He flung her off with a growl, his gaze raking her like fire before he focused once againon the spirit cats, staring up into thebranches. 
But he was too late. Bristlefrost’s heart soared as she sawNeedletailvanish among theleaves. 
Ashfur growled and glared at her. “You’ll pay for that.” His gaze flitted to Maggottail, Sparrowfeather, and Redwillow. The three Dark Forest warriors drew closer together, their tails low. Bristlefrost’s mouth grew dry. They’d never defend her against Ashfur. She was on her own. 
She backed away, glancing around frantically for an escape, when her gaze caught on Maggottail. The Dark Forest cat was looking straight at her. Surprise sparked beneath herpelt.Eagerness glowed in his eyes. 
He darted to her side and faced Ashfur. “We can do this,” he snarled as Sparrowfeather and Redwillow joined them. 
Bristlefrost felt gratitude surge in her chest. “Thank you!” 
Redwillowunsheathed his claws.“He’s outnumbered.” 
Sparrowfeathergrowled softly.“Let’s killhim.” 
Ashfur glanced toward his spirit cats. They had already stopped their pursuit. Now they turned and began to head back toward Ashfur, swarming through the branches as he flicked his gaze backto Bristlefrost and stared at hercoldly. 
Willowshine dropped lightly beside the dark warrior. Sandynose and Softpelt slithered like snakes down the trunks. Berrynose and Rosepetal leaped fromthe branches, theirpaws thudding softly on the forest floor. Closing in like wolves,the spirit cats lined up behind Ashfur. 
Bristlefrost pressed back a shudder. “He’s not outnumbered now,” shebreathed to Redwillow. 
“Focus on Ashfur,” Maggottail growled. “If we kill him, the spirit cats willstop fighting.” 
But as Bristlefrost nodded, Stemleaf dropped into an attack crouch. Berrynose drew back his lips. They glared at the Dark Forest warriors as though staring across a scent lineat an enemy patrol. 
Bristlefrost tried not to look at the spirit cats. She aimed her gaze at Ashfur. If she could reach him, she could stop him. 
Ashfur blinked backat her, triumph in his eyes. He gave a tiny nod and his command sent the spirit cats surging forward. Conefoot slammed into Sparrowfeatherso hard that he sent hersprawling into apileofleaves.Stemleafleaped at Maggottail. Sandynose dived at Redwillow. Bristlefrost saw cream fur flash at the edge of her vision as Berrynose grabbed herwith outstretched claws and dragged her to the ground. She hit it with a thump that shocked her. With a yowl, she kicked out withher hindpaws and caught himin the belly,knocking himaway. Scrabbling backup,she glared at Ashfur. 
The dark warrior stood at the center of a tight ring of spirit cats, directing them with his thoughts. Bristlefrost raced toward him, keeping low as she ducked a swipe from Berrynose.Strikestonebroke fromthering and lunged at her, but she swerved to avoid himand,pushing hard against the earth, flung herself through the gap he’d left. She bared her teeth, ready to sink them into Ashfur’s leg, but claws hooked hershoulder,and pain scorched through heras they lifted her off her paws. She gasped in surprise as Willowshine flung her backward. How could a medicine cat have such strength? Bristlefrost landed on her paws but skidded, unbalanced, and Willowshine leaped onto her, shoving her muzzle into the earth. Screeches and yowls exploded around her as the Dark Forest warriors tried to fight off the spirit cats. Bristlefrost pushed up with all four paws, thrusting the medicine cat backward. She felt her pelt rip as Willowshine’s claws tore her fur, but this time she hardly noticed the pain as she spun and faced the medicine cat. 
Willowshineglowered at her,hergreen eyes lit with hate. Ashfur’s hate. There was no way Willowshine would everbe so malicious. “Look!” Bristlefrost nodded toward the StarClan barrier. 
Willowshinedropped into an attackcrouch. 
“It’s loosening!” Bristlefrost yowled. Surely the real Willowshine was stillinside this cat? “We managed to make agap!” 
She saw Willowshine’s tail quiver as the medicine cat prepared to leap. 
“Needletail made it through!” Bristlefrost willed Willowshine to understand. “StarClan can help us. You have to fight Ashfur’s control!” 
Willowshine paused. Hope surged in Bristlefrost’s chest as the medicine cat seemed to stiffen. Her eyes cleared, the brightness that had lit them in life glimmering there for a moment as sheglanced at thebarrier. 
Bristlefrost hardly dared breathe. “Look.” As she watched, a vine loosened and unwound just enough for a narrow branch to spring free. “We can save StarClan if we hope!” 
But Willowshine blinked and dragged hergaze backfrom the barrier. No! Bristlefrost’s heart plummeted as the spirit cat’s eyes clouded once more. With a snarl,the medicine cat threw herself at Bristlefrost, raking her ear with a vicious blow. 
Bristlefrost reared and thumped her paws down on Willowshine’s spine. The gray she-cat rolled onto her side and wrapped her paws around Bristlefrost’s legs. Tugging themfrombeneath her,she dragged Bristlefrost to the earth. Bristlefrost kicked out, catching Willowshine beneath the chin. As Willowshine yelped in pain, Maggottail tumbled past, clinging onto Stemleaf, his eyes slitted with determination. Sparrowfeather was beating Rosepetal back toward a tree, and Bristlefrost felt a jolt of panic as she suddenly realized what would happen if the Dark Forest cat killed her former mentor, or any spirit cat. Any cat who died in the Dark Forest died in real life—but they didn’t go to StarClan’s hunting grounds or the DarkForest. 
They simply ceased to exist. 
Bristlefrost trembled and opened her mouth to call to Sparrowfeather just as Strikestone leaped for the spirit cat and pulled heraway. 
Bristlefrost’s thoughts whirled. That had been a close call—Rosepetaleasily might have been killed—but the Dark Forest cats had to defend themselves. They were too heavily outnumbered, and no cat had managed to get near Ashfur. She couldn’t risk any cat being killed—neither the spirit cats nor the DarkForest warriors. If any ofthemdied here,they would belost forever. 
“Retreat!” Yowling,she leaped to herpaws. Willowshine regained her footing and lunged at her once more. Bristlefrost darted clear and, beckoning the Dark Forest warriors with a flickofhertail,pelted forthe trees. “We have to get out ofhere.” 
A rivulet of dark water bounded the edge of the barrier clearing. She leaped it, glancing over her shoulder to make sure the others were following. Sparrowfeather batted Stemleaf away and gave chase. Maggottail sprinted after them.Redwillowwas already haring between thetrees. 
Bristlefrost tooka path that dipped and rose through the forest. Every hollow ran with dark water, and Bristlefrost found herselfleaping fromrise to rise,terrified ofgetting her paws wet. Maggottail was at her heels, Redwillow and Sparrowfeathertrailing,as they fled thespirit cats. 
Bristlefrost’s heart seemed to press up into herthroat. At least we survived, she told herself. And Needletail had escaped. She leaped another rivulet, the path beginning to even out. It ran straight between the trees, and she pressed hard against theearth,making themost ofthesmooth terrain to outdistance the spirit cats. She looked back and saw movement between the trees. Ayowlrang through the cold, dankair. 
“Iseethem!” 
Growls echoed afterthem. Pawsteps pounded the earth. Bristlefrost ran harder. But the paw steps were closing in. She focused on the forest ahead, her muscles burning with the effort, her breath coming fast. Keep going! She lengthened her stride, half blind with fear, and glanced back again. Strikestone and Dappletuft were almost at Redwillow’s tail. 
As she turned to scan the path, her heart nearly burst with panic. A few strides ahead, a wide ditch cut across the earth. She was moving too fast to crouch and leap over it, but her momentumwas too strong for her to make a sudden stop. Black water flowed along it, and she only pulled up just in time. As she scrambled to a halt, her pelt spiked in terror. “Watch out!” she shrieked, hooking Maggottail’s shoulder with her claws and jerking himbackward before he could hurtleblindly into thestream. 
Sparrowfeather slewed to a stop beside them, her eyes wide with fear. 
“Redwillow!” Bristlefrost screeched in horror as the tabby tomraced past. He was too fast to stop and she was too slow to grab him; he plunged into the water. Maggottail shrank away, and Bristlefrost ducked as black droplets showered around them. 
“Redwillow!” Sparrowfeather teetered at the edge of the ditch. She stared in horror as Redwillow’s shoulders disappeared beneath the water. The tabby tom flung his paws toward the bank, but it was too far away. His eyes rounding in terror, he opened his mouth to shriek. Water flooded in, and, silenced, he slid beneath the crow-black surface. 
Bristlefrost stared, barely able to believe her eyes as he disappeared, and the water closed over the Dark Forest warrioras though nothing had everdisturbed it. 
“He’s gone,” Sparrowfeathercroaked. 
A snarlsounded behind them. Bristlefrost turned in time to see Strikestone rearing over her, his face twisted with hate.His pawswung toward her,claws outstretched. 
Bristlefrost froze, bracing herself for the blow. But Maggottail leaped from her side and flung himself at the spirit cat. He knocked Strikestone away with a hefty swipe that sent thebrown tabby tomreeling. 
“Quick!” Maggottail got a running start, crouched, and carefully leaped the ditch, and he beckoned Sparrowfeather and Bristlefrost over as Dappletuft and Softpelt thundered toward them. 
Sparrowfeathergot lowand then jumped.Forcing herself not to think too hard, Bristlefrost crouched down and followed. Landing on the other side, she hit the ground running and pelted along the path. She tried not to think of Redwillow. He’d been alive a moment ago and now he was gone. But there was no time to mourn him. They had to escape. 
“Get them!” Ashfur’s order sliced between the trees. Yowls echoed fromdifferent points behind themas the spirit cats fanned out. 
“Up here!” Amewfromoverhead made Bristlefrost snap her muzzle upward. The trees were denser here, and the leaves clustered thickly on the branches. She could just make out movement. Needletail! The StarClan warrior was running through thebranches abovethem. 
“Quick!” Needletail’s hiss made her stop. “They won’t be ableseeyou fromtheground.” 
Bristlefrost swapped glances with Maggottail as he slithered to a halt beside her. Sparrowfeather pulled up and glanced over her shoulder. They were in luck. The path had dipped, and a rise hid them for a few moments from their pursuers. 
“Climb!” Bristlefrost hooked her claws into the nearest trunk and pulled herself onto the first branch. Maggottail followed.Sparrowfeatherclimbed the tree next to them.They leaped up fromthebranch,swishing through theleaves until the forest floor was barely visible beneath them. Bristlefrost stopped and froze, hardly breathing as paw steps pounded beneath her. 
Sparrowfeather sat motionless above her. Maggottail crouched in the tree beside hers, his eyes round with panic. Needletail landed softly beside Bristlefrost and blinked reassuringly at her. 
Ashfur’s yowl sounded below. “Find them!” Rage hardened his mew. Bristlefrost glimpsed Softpelt and Dappletuft climbing trees nearby. She shrank against the bark,praying they wouldn’t spot herbetween theleaves. 
Needletail nodded sharply toward the trunk. Bristlefrost’s heart sankas she sawBerrynose heave himself into the crook. The creamtom’s eyes widened with triumph as he met Bristlefrost’s gaze. He began to pickhis way along the branch toward her. 
Bristlefrost pricked her ears. Berrynose was the one outnumbered up here. She only had to get him far enough from Ashfur and he’d be free of the dark warrior’s control. Swallowing back fear, she straightened and darted toward him. His eyes widened in surprise and he gave a yelp as she grabbed him and pressed his chin against the branch. He tried to kickout with his hind legs, but Needletailleaped on top ofhimand pinned himdown. 
Helpless, Berrynose could only grip onto the bark as Bristlefrost pressed his head against the branch so hard that he couldn’t open his jawto wail. 
Aftera fewheartbeats,Bristlefrost felt thefight go out of him.He lay still,his eyes darkwith rage,but she ignored him and glanced at Needletail. “Grab as many spirit cats as you can,” sheordered. 
Needletail nodded and eased herself off Berrynose. 
Bristlefrost took her place, squashing Berrynose down hard as theStarClan warriorhopped noiselessly into thenext tree. 
There, she signaled to Maggottailwith a flickof her tail. The Dark Forest warrior glanced at Bristlefrost and seemed to understand. His eyes lit up as Stemleaf climbed onto the branch beneath him. 
The white-and-orange warrior hadn’t seen them. He tasted the air as he scanned the trees. Maggottail crept along the branch above him, then dropped on the unsuspecting tom. Stemleaf didn’t have time to yowlbefore Maggottail pressed his muzzle against the branch. Holding himthere,heblinked jubilantly at Bristlefrost. 
Sparrowfeather must have seen what they were doing. Bristlefrost’s heart quickened with elation as the DarkForest she-cat ambushed Willowshine. The medicine cat had been tiptoeing along a branch, but Sparrowfeather had followed herand overpowered herso nimbly that Willowshine had no chance to put up a fight.Nowshe could only squirmsilently as Sparrowfeatherheld herdown. 
Don’t let them make a sound. Bristlefrost’s heart pounded in herears. 
Below,Ashfur’s yowlhardened with rage.“Why haven’t you found them?” 
Bristlefrost looked down and glimpsed himbetween the leaves. The dark warrior was pacing, his pelt spiked along his spine as he scanned the forest. Conefoot and Rosepetal stood nearby,staring into thetrees. 
“They must have escaped overthe rise.” Ashfurpadded away, his tail flicking ominously as Conefoot and Rosepetal headed afterhim. 
Berrynose wriggled in Bristlefrost’s grip, but she held himfirmas the paw steps of their pursuers faded. Finally he gaveamuffled mew,and Bristlefrost glanced at him. 
The ThunderClan warrior was staring at her, his eyes pleading. Hesitantly, she loosened her grip enough for him to speak. 
“Ow!” Berrynose mewed reproachfully. He twisted his head,trying to get free. 
Bristlefrost held on, but not as tightly. “Is Ashfur still controlling you?” 
“Nah,” Berrynosemanaged to mew. 
Sparrowfeather looked down fromthe branch where she was holding Willowshine. The medicine cat’s green eyes were sparkling with indignation, but the blank hatred had gone. Stemleaf slapped his tail desperately against the branch whereMaggottailhad pinned him. 
“I think they’re back to normal,” Bristlefrost called in a hushed whisper. 
“Leh me go!” Berrynose strained against Bristlefrost’s grip.Shelet go but backed away warily as hepushed himself to his paws and shook out his pelt, opening his jaws as though he was testing to see if they still worked. “I don’t thinkmy muzzlewilleverbethesame.” 
“Sorry.” Bristlefrost dipped her head. “But it was the only way to freeyou.” 
Willowshine and Stemleaf were getting to their paws. Stemleaflooked stunned; Willowshine,relieved. They found a route along the branches and, with Needletail, Maggottail, and Sparrowfeather,joined Bristlefrost and Berrynose. 
Stemleafdipped his head to Bristlefrost.“Thanks.” 
Bristlefrost purred, delighted that her former Clanmate was freeofAshfur’s controloncemore. 
Willowshine looked at the forest floor. “Is it safe to climb down?” 
“Ashfur must be out of range if he lost control of us,” Berrynosemewed. 
Needletail leaned over the side of the branch. “I’ll go down first,” she mewed. 
Bristlefrost shook her head. “You can’t. It’s too dangerous.” Before the StarClan warrior could argue, she hurried to the trunk, lowered herself tail-first, and dropped onto the ground. She scanned the forest. There was no sign of movement. But streams of dark water crisscrossed the earth. What wasn’t being engulfed by water was being swallowed by fog. She could see it, pale among the dark trees in the distance. She edged away from a stream that oozed between the roots of a nearby tree. “It’s safe,” she called up.“But watch out forthedarkwater.” 
The others climbed down to join her. 
Sparrowfeather’s pelt was bushed when she reached the ground. She glanced back the way they’d run, her eyes sharp with grief.“Redwillow,” shewhispered. 
Bristlefrost met her gaze, pity welling in her chest. “He deserved better,” shetold Sparrowfeather. 
Stemleaf looked at her in surprise. “But he was a Dark Forest warrior.” 
Needletailcaught the tom’s eye. “He had the courage to stand up to Ashfur,” she mewed. “Not every cat is that brave.” 
Stemleaffrowned.“Iguess,” hemuttered. 
“Thanks for saving us.” Berrynose rubbed his chin with his paw.“Though you could havebeen gentler.” 
Bristlefrost looked at him. “You tried to kill me a few moments ago.” 
“Ashfur tried to kill you,” he told her. “Besides, I’mnot sure I would have. It feels like Ashfur’s mind control is getting easierto fight.” 
“Perhaps we’rejust getting betterat it,” Stemleafmewed. 
“Whatever,” Willowshine mewed. “Let’s not hang around to find out.” Shepadded between thetrees. 
Bristlefrost followed her.“Whereshould wego?” 
“Backto the barrier,ofcourse,” Willowshine told her. “If Needletail made it through, other StarClan warriors might follow.” 
Maggottail caught up to them. “Won’t Ashfur be heading there too?” 
Bristlefrost paused. There could be an ambush waiting for them already. She looked at Needletail. “Should we risk facing himagain?” 
A voice echoed from between the trees. “We’ll need morecats.” 
Bristlefrost’s tail bushed. She jerked around, looking to see who had spoken. Relief surged like cool wind through her pelt as she recognized the tom heading toward her through thetrees. 
“Rootspring.” She raced to meet him, happiness fizzing in her paws. As she reached him, she thrust her muzzle into the soft fur around his neck and purred before pulling back and rubbing herjawalong his.“You’resafe.” 
Hepurred loudly,pressing back.“So areyou!” 
They broke apart and gazed at each other, and Bristlefrost could seeherjoy reflected in his blueeyes. 
Needletail padded toward them, her gaze curious. “Who’s this?” She was staring at the ragged, pale gray tabby tomwho was standing behind Rootspring.Bristlefrost blinked at him.Shehadn’t noticed himuntilnow. 
“Silverhawk.” Maggottailstalked around him.“Have you joined us too?” 
The gray tom dipped his head. “I didn’t have much choice.” He eyed Rootspring warily. “This warrior is a good 
fighter.Hekilled Darkstripe.” Bristlefrost’s eyes widened.“Darkstripe?” Rootspring looked sheepish. “It wasn’t exactly me who 
killed him.” “What do you mean?” Did Rootspring havemore allies? “Do you remember the voice I heard beside the StarClan 
barrier?” heasked Bristlefrost. “It was Leafpool,wasn’t it?” Bristlefrost was confused. “Before that,” Rootspring mewed. “I heard a voice when 
wefirst got there.” Bristlefrost remembered now. He’d been the only one to 
hearit.“Who was it?” “Firestar.” Bristlefrost’s fur prickled. She’d heard so many stories 
about thegreat ThunderClan leader. 
Rootspring went on. “He stayed with me, and when Darkstripe and Mapleshade held me prisoner, he took over my body and fought forme.” 
Bristlefrost stretched her muzzle forward and sniffed Rootspring curiously. He didn’t smell any different. “Is he stillwith you now?” 
“Iguess so,” Rootspring told her.“But he hasn’t spoken 
to me sincehegavememy body back.” “Firestar’s with us?” Needletailwas pawing theground. “Ithinkso,” Rootspring told her. Needletail whisked her tail happily. “Then we’ve got nothing to worry about.” 
“Iwouldn’t say nothing,” Rootspring cautioned. 
But Needletail was already heading between the trees. “Let’s get backto thebarrier.” 
Bristlefrost hurried afterher.“What ifAshfur’s there?” 
“Look!” Needletail glanced back at Maggottail, Sparrowfeather, and Silverhawk as they hesitantly followed. “We’ve got three DarkForest warriors on ourside,and three spirit cats, and a Clan cat who’s carrying Firestar’s spirit with him.” 
Bristlefrost blinked. Needletail was right. They were far better prepared to face Ashfur now than they had been before. She knew they might lose the spirit cats’ support if they got close to Ashfur, but perhaps not right away; perhaps there would be time to get more help. All they had to do was reach the barrier. There might already be more StarClan warriors trying to break through. And the living Clans could be on their way right now, if Shadowsight had madeit backto theMoonpooland persuaded themto send a patrol.They might beableto win this battleafterall. 


Chapter 
12 


Shadowsight paused for breath. The climb had been steep and his wounds ached,but he was almost there. He glanced up at the lip of the Moonpool hollow. Beyond it, the milky bluesky promised dawn.Thesun would berising soon. 
Lightleap called down to him. “Hurry.” Hermewwas half whispered. She was supposed to come alone. The Sisters had ordered it. But Shadowsight had promised Dovewing he’d escort his sister safely to the hollow, hoping that by hanging back fromthe Moonpool itself, he would be doing enough to respect the Sisters’ wishes. Though he and Dovewing knew that there was far more danger waiting for Lightleap once she reached the Moonpoolthan there would be on the journey through the Clans’territory, he could not let her leave on such a dangerous mission without saying good-bye. 
Shadowsight scrambled up the last few boulders as his sister disappeared over the top. He followed her onto the smooth stone sloping down to the Moonpool, his heart aching. In the dawn light, the hollow looked as though it were underwater, swathed in blue shadow, waiting for the sun to lift overthe enclosing cliffs and flood it with light He was surprised to see Graystripe and Squirrelflight waiting at the top beside Lightleap. Apparently they, too, had decided to bend the Sisters’ rule. Mistystar and Reedwhisker were there too, shifting nervously in the half-light, and Shadowsight wondered which of themwould be going into the Dark Forest. He assumed it must be Reedwhisker; Mistystar had seemed so conflicted about the plan earlier. Breezepelt was with Crowfeather, and Violetshine, Tree, and Needleclaw had come together. Which of them would be accompanying Lightleap on this mission? 
As Tree dipped his head in greeting, Mistystar glanced in surprise at Lightleap, and then at Shadowsight’s injured leg.“Which oneofyou is going?” 
“Iam.” Lightleap lifted herchin. 
Mistystar’s ears twitched uneasily. Had she expected Tigerstar to send a more experienced cat? Or a warrior that wasn’t his kin? Perhaps she thought Shadowsight should go,return to theDarkForest despitehis injuries. 
Shadowsight glanced down the slope. The Sisters were huddled beside the Moonpool, their heads bowed together as they prepared forthe ritual. There was stilltime forhimto warn the volunteers what they would face. The Dark Forest had changed so much underAshfur’s rulethat even thecats who’d traveled there during the Great Battle, like Breezepelt, could tell the volunteers little that would help them now. Shadowsight’s knowledge was valuable, even if his injuries kept himfrombeing a strong fighter.He wondered perhaps if that was also why he’d decided to come. 
“Which ofyou is going?” He glanced around at the Clan cats. 
“I am.” Mistystar was the first to answer. Shadowsight nodded, trying to hide his surprise. I suppose even leaders can have a change of heart. 
“And me.” Violetshinedipped herhead. 
Crowfeather gave a curt nod, his eyes narrow, and Shadowsight guessed that this was the WindClan deputy’s way of announcing his part in the mission. Breezepelt glanced anxiously at his father. 
Shadowsight watched his sister, wishing ShadowClan’s volunteer were any other warrior but her. She seemed so young and inexperienced beside the others. Was she really strong enough for the ordeal that awaited her? Her eyes were shining with excitement,though Shadowsight knewher well enough to see she was nervous from the twitching of her tail-tip. He was relieved. She would be safer in the Dark Forest ifshewas scared. 
He leaned forward, looking gravely around at the volunteers. “When you get there, be careful of the dark water,” he warned. “If you fall in, there’s no escape. It will swallow you.” These cats were senior warriors, except for Lightleap,and it felt strange telling themwhat to expect. But he knew what he was saying could help them. “The Dark Forest is shrinking. Fog and water are smothering it, so finding yourway around willbe hard. The old path between the Dark Forest and StarClan’s hunting grounds is gone. Ashfur dug a new tunnel between them, then built a barrier across it. There’s no sun or stars to guide you, and the barrier is deep in the center of the Dark Forest. You’ll know when you’reclosebecausethereare darktreestumps dotted among theothertrees.” 
Crowfeatherfrowned.“Howwillwefind it?” 
“Keep heading toward darkness, and away from fog,” Shadowsight told him. “Watch out for the spirit cats. They’re only in the Dark Forest because they can’t reach StarClan,but you can’t trust them. They might be controlled by Ashfur. If they try to harm you, it means Ashfur is nearby. Alot ofthe DarkForest warriors are fighting forhim too, but he can’t control them directly.” A shiver lifted the furon his neck,as though claws were tugging at the edge of his thoughts. Can Ashfur sense I’m talking about him? He shuddered,feeling queasy as he remembered his connection with thedarkwarriorand pushed thethought away. 
Mistystar was frowning. “How does Ashfur control the spirit cats?” 
“With his mind,” Shadowsight told her.“He has to focus on them to make them do what he wants. If you break his concentration, it will break the connection, but he’s strong and stubborn and you won’t be able to break it for more than a fewmoments.” 
Reedwhisker looked nervously at the RiverClan leader. 
“Rememberwhat wetalked about,” he mewed. 
Mistystar met his gaze steadily. “I’m not going to changemy mind.” 
“You’re our leader.” He glanced around at the othercats uneasily, as though wary of questioning his leader in front ofthem.But something compelled him.“Ifanything happens to you—” 
She cut him off. “You’ve been a strong deputy, and you’llbe a strong leader if I die,” she mewed. “I have every faith you areready to takemy place.” 
Reedwhisker’s eyes glittered with dread, and Shadowsight remembered that he was not only Mistystar’s deputy,but herkit. 
Mistystar touched her muzzle to Reedwhisker’s cheek. “You’llmakeme proud,” shemewed softly.“Iknowit.” 
He closed his eyes for a moment, then pulled away, straightening. “I will try,” he told her. “But I hope I don’t haveto.” 
Mistystar’s gaze flitted around at the other volunteers. “Every one of us is risking our lives,” she told them. “And ourfuture in StarClan. But ifwe fail,ourClans willlose more. That’s why they are sending us on this mission. Why else would ThunderClan even think of risking an elder as loved and valued as Graystripe?” She dipped herhead respectfully to the gray tom, and he dipped his in return. Then she turned her gaze to Crowfeather. “As deputy of WindClan, you’ve proved your worth over and over again.” She nodded to Violetshine. “And you’re an honored warrior. You fought valiantly against Darktail,and no one willeverforget yourcourageand strength.” 
Shadowsight’s throat tightened as the RiverClan leader turned to Lightleap. 
“You’re the youngest volunteer,” she mewed. Lightleap glanced at her paws self-consciously. “Which means you’re risking more than any of us. You have many moons as a warriorahead ofyou. You may yet decide to take a mate and have kits. It isn’t just your future in StarClan that you are risking,but yourfuturebesidethelake.” 
Heart pricking with grief, Shadowsight stiffened and looked away. The Sisters, he saw, had broken their huddle, and Flurry was padding up the slope. Would she scold them foraccompanying theirvolunteers to thehollow? 
Mistystar didn’t seemto notice the she-cat’s approach. “We are taking this risk because it is unthinkable not to do so. We must stop Ashfur and save StarClan. Squirrelflight was right when she spoke yesterday.” She blinked gratefully at the ThunderClan deputy. “Our connection to our ancestors is what makes us warriors, and we must preserve it. I was wrong to question the idea of sending help, and I amglad that by joining this mission, I can prove my loyalty to StarClan.” 
As Violetshine’s tail quivered, Crowfeather shifted his paws. 
Graystripe turned his head toward Flurry, who had almost reached them. “We’re ready,” he told her as she stopped in front oftheClan cats. 
Sunlight was glimmering at the top ofthe enclosing cliff. “We have no time to waste.” She looked around the cats solemnly. “If you’re not going into the Dark Forest, you should leavenow.” 
Squirrelflight dipped herhead to the Sister,then touched her muzzle to Graystripe’s before the old tompadded away. Mistystar blinked fondly at Reedwhisker, then followed Graystripe down the slope, pausing for a moment as though fixing herkit’s facein hermemory. 
Tree leaned closer to Violetshine, pressing his muzzle into herneck.“Comebacksafely,” he whispered. 
Needleclawbrushed around hermother. “Take care,” she mewed. 
Breezepelt glanced at his father. “See you soon,” he mumbled. 
Crowfeather nodded, tapped Breezepelt’s head with his muzzle,and headed afterthe others. 
Breezepelt watched himgo,his eyes glistening suddenly. He looked away self-consciously but made no move to leave. 
“Good-bye.” Lightleap blinked affectionately at Shadowsight. She was trying to look determined, but he sensed she was searching for encouragement as she gazed into his eyes. 
“Be brave,” he mewed, touching his nose to her cheek. “You’re as strong as any warrior here. Trust your instincts and rememberthat we’llbe thinking about you.” 
She purred, though her voice faltered, then she turned away before he could say anything more. His heart twisted in his chest. “Be careful,” he called afterheras she followed Flurry down the spiralpath. 
“We should go,” Squirrelflight mewed,but she hesitated at thelip ofthehollow. 
Shadowsight’s heart was pounding. “What if the ritual doesn’t work this time?” he murmured. “What if they can’t find Rootspring?” His mind began to spin as he imagined all the dangers waiting in the DarkForest. 
He felt warm breath on his ear. Needleclaw had padded to his side. She leaned close. “It’llbe okay,” she whispered. “Rootspring and Bristlefrost will get out of this, and Lightleap and Violetshinewilltoo.” 
Shadowsight blinked at her,hoping it was true. 
Breezepelt was watching his father as the patrol neared the Moonpool. He looked like a kit left alone in the nursery for the first time. Tree wove around him, trailing his tail comfortingly over the tom’s shoulders. Shadowsight heard the yellowtommurmursomething to Breezepelt but couldn’t make out the words.Breezepelt dipped his head gratefully to the SkyClan tom,his eyes glistening anew. 
The patrol lay down beside the water as the Sisters closed around them. Shadowsight pricked his ears,listening forthe singing,but silencegripped thehollow.The tip ofthe sun was lifting over the cliffs. Surely they must start their song soon? “Perhaps we should go.” He turned toward the edge, glancing one last time at the patrol. His heart was heavierthan stone.Take care, Lightleap. 
“Wait.” Squirrelflight’s mewmadehimturn back. 
Flurry was hurrying up the spiralpath toward them. 
“We’re leaving,” he called to her, feeling guilty. They must be in the way. He searched her gaze, expecting irritation,but instead anxiety sparkled there.Then herealized that Lightleap was padding after the yellow she-cat, her brown striped taildrooping behind her. 
Flurry stopped in front of Squirrelflight. “There’s a problem.” 
Alarm pricked in Shadowsight’s paws. Couldn’t the patrol make it through? Lightleap seemed to shrink inside herpelt and Shadowsight tensed.What had happened? Had his sisterdonesomething wrong? 
Flurry’s gaze was clear and calm. She didn’t look at Lightleap but addressed the group. “Not every cat has the quietness of mind to allow the singing into their thoughts,” shemewed gently. 
She means Lightleap! Shadowsight’s heart ached forhis sister.He hurried to herside. 
Flurry went on. “Lightleap will not be able to make it through theMoonpool.” 
“It doesn’t matter,” he whispered into Lightleap’s ear. “Allthat matters is that you werebraveenough to try.” 
Lightleap pulled away. “I wanted to help. I just …can’t push away thefear.” Hermewcracked. 
Flurry looked around the others. “If you want five cats to go,oneofyou must take Lightleap’s place.” 
Squirrelflight lifted hermuzzle.“I’llgo.” 
“No.” Tree lifted his muzzle. “Bramblestar will never forgiveus ifwelet you go.” 
“I’llgo,” Breezepelt mewed. 
Squirrelflight shook her head. “It would be too hard on your kin to risk you both,” she told the WindClan warrior. Sheeyed Reedwhisker,as though warning himtoo. 
Shadowsight padded forward. “I’ll go,” he mewed. He could still feel the ache of his wounds, but Puddleshine’s ointment had eased them,and the medicine cat had wrapped enough cobweb over themto stop themopening again. He caught Lightleap’s eye, willing herto understand that doing this was right, and that she shouldn’t feel ashamed he was taking her place. “ShadowClan should be part of this,” he told Squirrelflight. 
Lightleap looked back at him, hurt flashing in her eyes, and guilt pressed so hard in his chest that he hardly heard Squirrelflight’s anxious mew. 
“Areyou strong enough?” 
He dragged his gaze away fromLightleap and looked at the ThunderClan deputy. “I’ll have to be.” And Lightleap would haveto understand. 
The decision made, his heart felt suddenly at ease, beating slower than it had when he’d thought Lightleap would go. This felt better, as though it was meant to be. He blinked at his sister, wishing Dovewing or Tigerstar were here to comfort her. But if they were, they might try to persuade himto stay,and hecouldn’t.Hehad to do this. 
Lightleap blinked back at him. The hurt had gone from hereyes. There was only fearthere now. He hesitated. What if he never saw her again? What if he never saw any of his kin again? He pushed the thought away before his heart could split in two. 
Flurry whisked hertail.“We should start.Thesun willbe rising soon.” 
She headed backdown the spiralpath and Shadowsight hurried after her, squinting against the sunshine beginning to spill into the hollow. As he passed Lightleap, he ran his tail along her flank. “You were brave to volunteer,” he whispered. 
Shetouched hernoseto his ear.“Comehomesafely.” 
She sounded so anxious that he wanted to stay and comfort her, but already a rosy glowlit the horizon. The sun was rising. He glanced hopefully back at Tree. Would the SkyClan tomoffer Lightleap the same kindness he’d shown to Breezepelt? 
Mistystar was pacing beside the Moonpool as Shadowsight reached it. Violetshine glanced at him and blinked reassuringly. Crowfeather’s tail was twitching impatiently. Graystripe was sitting back on his haunches, giving his belly a quick wash as though this were just anotherday in camp,but as Flurry tookherplace among the Sisters,hegot to his paws. 
The Sisters closed around the patrol in a tight circle. Shadowsight’s heart quickened as they blocked out the wash of color creeping across the sky. Mistystar and Violetshine lay down, Crowfeather dropped to his belly, and Graystripe gently lowered himself onto his side. Shadowsight lay beside him, comforted by the warmth seeping fromthe elder’s thick gray pelt. He closed his eyes and, heart pounding, listened to the Sisters’voices rising in song around himas he prepared to return to the DarkForest oncemore. 

Chapter 
13 


Rootspring followed Bristlefrost as she ducked under a low branch that twisted away into shadow. His shoulders ached. Firestar must have fought hard. It felt strange to have lent his body to another warrior. At least the taste of blood was gone now.Hecouldn’t feelany newinjuries,but his muscles still twitched with the memory of battle even though he couldn’t remember the fight. My paws defeated one of the strongest warriors in the Dark Forest. He was eager to test them himself now that he knew what they were capable of. And yet the thought made himnervous. Ifthere was a battle ahead,it would beahard one. 
He glanced anxiously at Bristlefrost as she led their patrol between two pools of dark water. He would protect herabove all,even ifit meant risking his own life. 
The Dark Forest seemed to grow darker as they neared the StarClan barrier, and water brimmed in every ditch and hollow in the forest floor. As the path opened into a clear stretch of woods, Bristlefrost slowed to let him catch up. Needletail fell in beside them, the stars in her pelt lighting the shadows. Maggottail and Sparrowfeather were trailing with Silverhawk. Berrynose and Stemleaf shadowed them, theirears pricked warily. 
Willowshinehalted,tasting theair. 
Rootspring looked at her. What had caught her 
attention? “Is Ashfurnear?” Bristlefrost’s tailtwitched.“Is he trying to controlyou?” “I don’t think so.” The RiverClan medicine cat peered 
into the shadows.“This place just gives me the creeps.” She glanced at Stemleaf.“Can you sense him?” “No.” Stemleaf glanced over his shoulder. “But we should hurry ifwewant to get to the barrierbeforehedoes.” 
Rootspring hesitated. He hadn’t been as eager as the others to return to a place Ashfur knew they would have to go.“Weneed moreallies.” 
“Wehave them.” Bristlefrost nodded toward thepatrol. Rootspring glanced doubtfully at the spirit cats, not wanting to point out that they couldn’t betrusted. Willowshine wasn’t so hesitant. “Don’t rely on us,” she 
warned. “Why not?” Needletailblinked at her. “Have you forgotten Ashfur can control us?” 
Willowshinemewed. Berrynose’s pelt ruffled self-consciously. “We’ll try to 
fight it,but Ashfur’s poweris strong here.” “But you’retruewarriors,” Needletailinsisted. “That’s not enough.” Berrynosetold herdarkly.“Do you 
think we haven’t tried to resist? If Ashfur is near and decides to controlus,it’s impossible to throwhimoff.” Stemleafshifted his paws. “If we betray you, it won’t be 
ourfault.” 
Rootspring felt a jab of pity for the ThunderClan tom. It must be hard for a loyal warrior to admit. “I’mgoing to get you to StarClan,” he promised. “If Needletail can make it through thebarrier,so can you.You’llbesafethere.” 
Stemleaf looked away, as though embarrassed that he needed protection. 
Bristlefrost swished her tail. “If we work fast and stick together, Ashfur might not get a chance to use his power overyou.He’llhave to face us like a realwarrior,and he’llbe no match for us. And even if you can’t resist him, we have Maggottail, Sparrowfeather, and Silverhawkfighting with us as well.” 
Rootspring eyed the Dark Forest warriors, wishing his safety didn’t depend on such treacherous cats. 
Bristlefrost must have noticed his doubt. “Maggottail saved my life,” she mewed. “And, from what you say, Silverhawkdidn’t help Darkstripewhen Firestarfought him.” 
“He didn’t help Firestareither,” Rootspring pointed out. 
“We want Ashfur gone as much as you do,” Sparrowfeatherinsisted. 
Rootspring frowned.Was it true? “Let’s say we can trust these warriors. It still isn’t enough. You’ve seen how many Ashfurhas on his side.” 
“We could recruit more Dark Forest cats.” Needletail looked at Maggottail. “Do you know any others who might be willing to stand up to Ashfur?” 
Maggottailshrugged.“Don’t askme.” 
Sparrowfeather’s ears twitched. “It’s difficult to know who to trust in the Dark Forest,” she mewed. “It’s not like a Clan. We don’t hang out together. It’s every cat for themselves here.” 
“Ihardly knowwho’s left in the DarkForest,” Silverhawk mewed. “Those I do know, like Thistleclaw and Rushtooth, keep to themselves.Idon’t knowwhat they thinkorwhether they’d beprepared to betray Ashfur.” 
“Thistleclaw would betray anyone,” Sparrowfeather muttered. 
Rootspring’s heart sank. These cats didn’t seemto have any senseofloyalty.Was it wise to rely on themat all? 
“Come on, then.” Bristlefrost started walking again. “Let’s get to the barrier. It looks like StarClan is our best hoperight now.” 
Needletail hurried after her. “What about your friend’s mission to bring apatrolfromthelake?” 
Rootspring’s pelt prickled anxiously. Had Shadowsight managed to escape the Dark Forest? “We can’t be sure he madeit.” 
Bristlefrost looked at him. “We’d know by now if he hadn’t.” 
“How?” Rootspring was puzzled by hercertainty. 
“Ashfur would have been sure to tell us if he’d caught him,” shemewed. 
Rootspring narrowed his eyes. She was right—the dark warrior wouldn’t have been able to resist the chance to boast. 
Needletaillooked hopeful. “So a patrolmight already be on its way?” 
Rootspring was still worried. He knew from experience howreluctant someofthe Clan leaders could beto help each other. How quickly they’d turned on one another when Ashfurhad been posing as Bramblestar. “If he can persuade the living Clans to send one.” 
“And if they can allmake it here,” Bristlefrost added. 
Needletail’s eyes darkened. “So you’re right:StarClan is ourbest hope right now.” She quickened herstep as twisted stumps began to show between the trees. “We’re almost there.” 
“Be careful!” Rootspring called to Bristlefrost as she hurried after Needletail. They broke into a run. “Watch whereyou put yourpaws!” 
Rivulets of dark water cut across the forest floor. His heart pounded as Bristlefrost leaped overthem,and raced to keep up,terrified to takehis eyes offher.Reliefswamped him as they reached the barrier. Ashfur wasn’t here, and there was no dark water in the clearing. He pulled up beside Bristlefrost, catching his breath as Stemleaf, Berrynose, and the DarkForest warriors reached them. 
Bristlefrost was padding eagerly around the barrier. “Moreofthe vines haveloosened.” 
Willowshine crossed the clearing and tugged one with her paw. It gave, unwinding just a little. “I think you’re right!” 
Rootspring sniffed the vines hopefully. The gap Needletail had squeezed through seemed a little wider, and the brambles around it had slackened. 
Needletail nudged him aside and poked her nose through.“Is any cat there?” 
“Needletail!” 
The reply made Rootspring jump. A deep mew rang out behind the tangle of branches. Who was it? He pressed closer with Bristlefrost and Willowshine as they crowded around Needletailand tried to peekaround her.Behind them, Berrynose and Stemleaf fidgeted in excitement while the DarkForest warriors hung back,theireyes glittering warily. 
“The Clans need help!” Needletail called back. “I can’t do it alone.” 
The barrier shivered, as though some cat was trying to squeeze through. Bristlefrost hopped backward in surprise. Willowshine’s eyes widened, but Needletail seemed to hesitate. 
“It’s dangerous here,” shewarned through thebranches. “Ifyou die in theDarkForest,you’llbegoneforever.” 
“We’ll die if we stay here,” the voice called back. “We must restore the link between StarClan and the living Clans and saveourterritory.Ourforests havenearly disappeared.” 
A small brown paw, dotted with stars, reached through the brambles. 
Rootspring’s heart quickened. Was StarClan really coming to help? As hope surged in his chest, he heard Firestar’s mewring in his mind. 
It’s time for me to leave you. No! Rootspring stiffened.Stay and fight with us! Don’t worry. Firestar’s mew was calm. Put your faith in 
StarClan. 
Would faith be enough? Rootspring closed his eyes.But we need you! hetold Firestar. 
You are strong enough without me, Firestaranswered. 
Am I? Rootspring wasn’t sure. Could his paws defeat Ashfurwithout Firestarcontrolling them? 
It’s okay, Firestarsoothed.You can do this. 
Rootspring’s chest seemed to grow hollow, as though his heart had suddenly emptied out. Firestar was leaving him.No! Hedug his claws into theearth.I need you! 
Beside him, the barrier rustled. Rootspring opened his eyes as a lithe brown tom, muscles rippling beneath his starry pelt,pushed his way into theclearing. 
“Onestar!” Needletail whisked her tail happily. “You made it.” She looked eagerly behind him. The barrier was trembling. Asilver-and-blackshe-cat with piercing blue eyes slid through,shimmering with starlight. 
“Hi, Silverstream.” Needletail sounded delighted to see her,hereyes brightening even moreas a second silvertabby followed, herfur as soft as cloud and her taillike a plume of smoke.“Feathertail.” 
Silverstream blinked at her, then glanced toward Bristlefrost. “You’re ThunderClan, aren’t you?” She didn’t wait for an answer, her ears twitching eagerly. “How’s Graystripe?” 
“He’s well,” Bristlefrost told her. 
Feathertailpurred, herfluffy tailquivering. “Willyou tell himwe asked afterhim?” 
“Sure.” Bristlefrost wondered why these two cats were so interested in Graystripe. 
Silverstream seemed to read her thoughts and brushed Feathertail’s ear with her muzzle. “This is his kit,” she explained.“And mine.” 
A tortoiseshell warrior pushed after her, followed by a blacktom. “Redtail.” Needletailgreeted themin turn, her tail twitching with delight.“Larksong.” 
Redtail glanced darkly around the clearing. “I can’t believe Ashfur has managed to cause even more trouble than Tigerstar,” hegrowled. 
Larksong looked at Bristlefrost, his eyes round with worry.“HowareSparkpelt and ourkits?” 
Bristlefrost blinked at him reassuringly. “They’re safe,” shetold him. 
His ruffled pelt smoothed. “I’ve been worried about them,” he mewed. “It’s been hard not seeing themsince the impostor blocked our connection to the living Clans. I’ve been taking care of Flickerkit, but it’s hard not being able to watch overthe others. I’msure they’ve grown by leaps and bounds.” 
“They have, and they’re doing just fine,” she promised. “Sparkpelt is a great mother.” 
Rootspring narrowed his eyes against the StarClan cats’ sparkling fur. They lit the clearing, and he wondered if the DarkForest had everseen such brightness. 
The barrier shivered again. Another StarClan warrior? Surely they shouldn’t risk so many. “You know how dangerous this fight will be—” Rootspring began, but his words trailed away as he saw orange fur appear in the gap. Green eyes glistened among the brambles,and alarge,flame.colored tompushed through.Could it be? He held his breath as Needletaildipped herhead low. 
“Firestar,” shemewed eagerly.“You’vecome!” 
Firestar dipped his head. “I guess you could say I’ve been here a while.” He padded toward Rootspring. “Thank you.” He blinked warmly. “You were brave to trust me, but I’mglad you did.” 
Rootspring could hardly speak. He’d heard so much about this legendary warrior that even though he’d already carried his spirit, he felt self-conscious meeting him muzzle to muzzle. He glanced at the ground. “That’s okay,” he mumbled. 
Firestar purred. “Don’t be so shy,” he mewed. “We’re practically old friends. I’ve lived inside your thoughts.” He glanced at Bristlefrost, his eyes sparkling. “A lot of them were about you.” As she looked away self-consciously, he went on.“It’s good to meet you at last.” 
Bristlefrost’s pelt prickled. “It’s—it’s amazing to meet you,” shestammered.“I’veheard so much about you.” 
Stemleaf and Berrynose were staring at the StarClan warriors. Willowshine looked through the gap they’d made. “Does this mean we can go to StarClan once Ashfur’s been defeated?” 
Firestarlooked at her.“You can go nowifyou like.” 
Willowshine shook her head. “I may be a medicine cat,” shemewed,“but I’mnot running away fromthis battle.” 
“Meneither,” Stemleafchimed. 
“NorI.” Berrynosepuffed out his chest. 
Maggottail narrowed his eyes. “Why risk your place in StarClan?” he mewed sourly. 
“I’d riskanything to savemy Clan,” Stemleafretorted. 
As Berrynose whisked his tail in agreement, Firestar looked at Maggottail. “For true warriors, the Clans’future is moreimportant than ourown,” hemewed. 
Maggottail sniffed while Silverhawk eyed the spirit cats suspiciously, but Sparrowfeather was gazing at the StarClan warriors as though she was imagining what it would have been liketo haveastar-specked pelt. 
Rootspring looked around the clearing,which was filling up rapidly. They had plenty ofallies now …but would they be enough to defeat Ashfur? 
Needletail’s hackles lifted. Her gaze flashed toward the trees. What had she seen? Heart pounding, Rootspring jerked his muzzle around.Was it the darkwarrior? 
A shape was moving in the shadows. Needletail flattened her ears. Rootspring unsheathed his claws. Was it timeto fight already? 
But instead of the gray impostor, it was a skinny black tomwho slunkinto the clearing. Rootspring had never seen this cat before. 
Needletailcurled herlip.“Juniperclaw.” 
The tomlooked around nervously.“Hello.” 
Firestar didn’t move. Curiosity glittered in his wide, green gaze. “Saving Shadowsight’s life wasn’t enough to save you fromthe DarkForest afteryou poisoned SkyClan’s fresh-killpile,” heobserved. 
Juniperclawducked his head meekly. 
“Why haveyou come?” Firestardemanded. 
“There were rumors that strangers had come to the Dark Forest.” The black tom avoided the gazes of the StarClan warriors.“Iheard they planned to fight Ashfur.” 
Onestar glared at him, not disguising his disgust. “Why do you care?” 
Juniperclawflinched.“Iwant to help.” 
“Why should wetrust you?” 
Juniperclawglanced at Maggottailand Silverhawk. “You trust them, don’t you? They’ve done worse things than I have.” 
Maggottail’s pelt lifted along his spine. “You poisoned a Clan’s fresh-kill pile,” he snapped. “What could be worse than that?” 
“I thought I was doing it for the right reasons. But I know now that I was wrong.” Juniperclaw shifted uncomfortably.“Iwant achanceto redeemmyself.” 
“If you’re looking for a way out of the Dark Forest, forget it,” Needletail snapped. “You won’t be forgiven for what you did.” 
“I’m not!” Juniperclaw mewed quickly. “And I know. I just want to prove that I’ma true warriordespite everything. To myselfand to my Clan.” 
“It’s a bit late for that.” Larksong padded forward. “You put kits and elders at risk.” 
“You acted likearogue,not awarrior,” Redtailadded. 
“And that’s why Iwant to help,” Juniperclawpressed.“I want to makeup forwhat Idid.” 
“Even ifit could mean dying forever?” Redtailpressed. 
“I don’t mind dying for the Clans,” Juniperclaw glanced at his paws. “It wouldn’t be the first time I died to save someone else. My littermate Strikestone is a good cat, and he’s trapped in the Dark Forest just as I am. If I help you, perhaps he, at least, will be free to enter StarClan’s hunting grounds.” 
Rootspring felt a prick of sympathy for the black tom. Even though he didn’t knowthe whole story,it sounded like Juniperclaw really wanted to make amends. But Maggottail was watching theblacktomthrough narrowed eyes. 
“Havesome pride,” theDarkForest warriorgrowled. 
Juniperclaw ignored him. His gaze was on Firestar. “Please.Let me help.” 
“It’s fine with me.” Firestarglanced around. “But I’mnot the only cat who has asay here.” 
Needletailfrowned. 
“He did save Shadowsight,” Rootspring cut in. They might not have made it this far without Shadowsight’s help. And hewas a friend Rootspring and Bristlefrost valued. 
“I suppose we need all the help we can get.” Onestar scowled at the otherDarkForest warriors. “No matterwho’s offering.” 
Bristlefrost stepped in front of them, chin high, like a parent defending their kits. “These cats are fighting to protect theirhome,and weshould respect that,” shemewed. 
Onestar looked unconvinced. The other StarClan cats exchanged glances. 
Rootspring padded to Bristlefrost’s side. “I know you neverexpected to fight beside DarkForest warriors,” he told Onestar. “I’mnot comfortable with it either, but we can’t be picky right now. These cats want to stop Ashfur from destroying the Dark Forest.” He nodded toward Silverhawk and Sparrowfeather. “It’s their home, so there’s a good chance they’ll fight as fiercely as any StarClan warrior to protect it.” 
“Ihopeyou’reright,” Onestarmewed darkly. 
“Havefaith in them,” Firestartold theWindClan leader. 
Onestar grunted. “I’m a StarClan warrior,” he muttered. “They’resupposed to havefaith in me.” 
Rootspring stiffened. Unease was suddenly worming beneath his fur. Something was pulling at the edge of his thoughts.He swallowed as he heard a strange wail,like a cat yowling far away among the trees. His fur began to spike. Was it Ashfur calling to his followers? He looked into the shadowy woods, straining to hear more, but the sound died away,and silencehung oncemore between thetrees. 
Heturned toward theothers.“Did you hearthat?” 
Theirpelts werebristling. 
“Yes.” Firestarscanned theforest. 
Willowshine backed away. “If it’s Ashfur, perhaps we should get going.” She looked at Stemleafand Berrynose. “I want to learn to fight his control, but I’mnot confident yet. And ifhe gets close enough to controlus,we might put the others in danger.” 
Berrynose fluffed out his fur. “I’m not running,” he growled. “I told you, I want to fight this battle. If it means dying,Idon’t care.” 
Willowshine’s eyes widened.“But ifyou’renot ready—” 
“That’s a risk we’re going to have to take.” Berrynose cut her off. “How will we know when we’re ready? All I know is that I let Ashfur control me when I was alive,” he growled. “I had a choice then. Even though he was doing things Bramblestar would never do, and giving orders no warriorwould evergive,Iobeyed. It got me killed and Iwish I’d resisted him. I’m going to try it now. I’m going to fight his control. I’m going to fight for the Clans and die again, foreverthis time,ifIhaveto.” 
Bristlefrost blinked at the creamtom. “It might not work, but I’m glad you want to try.” There was relief in her mew, and Rootspring guessed that Berrynose’s betrayal of ThunderClan when he was alive must have hurt her. He felt suddenly even more protective of her. She’d been through so much, and she was still ready to support her Clanmates, even when they’d mademistakes. 
But something needed to be said that he knew Bristlefrost wouldn’t want to say. He looked at Berrynose. “You realize that ifresisting Ashfurdoesn’t work,we’llhave to fight you,” hemewed.“We might even haveto killyou.” 
“That’s okay,” Berrynose answered evenly. “If it comes to that,don’t hesitate.You haveto savetheClans.” 
“I have a confession too.” Silverhawk’s mew took Rootspring by surprise. “I’ve been here a long time,” he mewed.“When Iwas alive,Itried to killmy leaderso that my kit could take his place. I thought he’d been a deputy for long enough. All I succeeded in doing was getting us both killed. My time here has been darker than I could even imagine.But that’s my fault.Ichose to help Mapleshade and then Ashfur. I’ve made nothing but bad decisions. But now”—he glanced at Rootspring and then Bristlefrost —“I’ve seen what it is to be a true warrior and risk everything for others.” He looked at Firestar. “If I can make up for what I’ve done by helping you defeat Ashfur, then I will.” 
Maggottail’s ears twitched disapprovingly. “You’ll be begging themforaplacein StarClan next,” hemuttered. 
Silverhawk glared at him. “I don’t deserve a place in StarClan. I never will. But I owe them, and the living Clans, something.” 
Redtailswished his tailimpatiently.“Arewesupposed to be impressed by these confessions?” he growled. “What’s the point in being sorry? You shouldn’t have done it in the first place.” 
“We’ll see if you mean it when it comes to fighting,” Silverstreamagreed sharply. 
“Talking like a warrior is easy,” Feathertail chimed in. 
“It’s acting likeonethat’s hard.” 
Rootspring shifted his paws. Did the StarClan warriors haveto beso harsh?Silverhawkwas being earnest.His eyes shimmered with regret. Why confess if he didn’t mean it? If he wanted to make up for what he’d done, StarClan should be pleased, surely. Rootspring remembered Snowtuft. The Dark Forest warrior had given up any future he could have in order to save living cats. Didn’t any cat who finally became a true warrior,no matterhowlong it took,deserve to be accepted? Especially cats who’d been here longer than they’d been alive? If it were Rootspring’s decision to make, Snowtuft would have a place in StarClan, and these cats would at least be given a chance to earn some sort of redemption.Some cat surely had to stand up forthem.“Isn’t it only fairto—” 
A rustling sound between the trees cut himoff. Ashfur? Firestar’s hackles lifted. Onestar dropped into a defensive crouch.Bristlefrost glanced in alarmat thespirit cats. 
Rootspring swung his gazetoward thetrees.Is he here? 
Cats were moving stealthily through the shadows. Rootspring could see their eyes gleaming in the darkness. His belly tightened. This time, Firestar wouldn’t be fighting for him. He’d have to guide his own claws. Unsheathing them,he prepared to fight. 
Firestarlet out a warning growl. His muscles twitched as though they could barely contain the anticipation charging through his body. As Rootspring watched,the ThunderClan leader charged between the trees and leaped for the closest attacker. 


Chapter 
14 


Ashfur? Shadowsight froze as a large tom rushed from the clearing and charged at Graystripe. Had the dark warrior been waiting for them? I can’t fight. Fear had pricked at the edge of his thoughts as the patrol had picked its way through the DarkForest. It surged nowinto a flood ofpanic as thetomcrashed into Graystripe,knocking theelderoffhis paws.I shouldn’t have come. 
Beside him, Mistystar’s pelt bushed and Crowfeather’s eyes widened. But they were hesitating. Why? Had the ferociousness ofAshfur’s attackfrozen themtoo? Help him! His thoughts whirled as Graystripe tumbled into a tree root. With a snarl, the tomlunged after Graystripe, ears flat, teeth glinting in thedarkness.Timeseemed to stop. 
Shadowsight suddenly realized that the trees were shimmering as though starlight had broken into the Dark Forest. Then he saw more cats rushing toward the patrol. Who are they? Dark Forest warriors? Spirit cats? Shadowsight could barely think for the blood roaring in his ears. Why weren’t Mistystar and Crowfeather attacking them? Why was Violetshine rooted to the spot? As their attackers charged, their fur seemed to light up the forest, and, in the glow, Shadowsight saw that the tom wrestling with Graystripe had orangefur.That’s not Ashfur! 
“Graystripe!” Theflame-colored tomreleased him. 
Shadowsight caught his breath as Graystripe yowled with joy. 
“Firestar!” Purring so loudly that the dark trees seemed to hum with the sound, Graystripe rolled the orange tom over and over, licking his neck and his face as though he’d discovered alost kit.“Is it really you?” 
Shadowsight blinked. Firestar? Was this the legendary leader of ThunderClan? The cat who’d died moons ago, saving theClans during agreat battlewith theDarkForest? 
“Firestar.” Mistystar’s pelt fluffed with delight. Crowfeatherwhisked his tail. 
Firestar was purring too, pressing his muzzle into Graystripe’s thick mane as he let the elder squash him against theground.“You’veput on weight,” hegrunted. 
“I can’t help it.” Graystripe scrambled to his paws, his eyes nearly as bright as the star-specked fur of the cats who’d stopped a few tail-lengths away. “I’m getting old.” His gaze flitted over Firestar’s pelt. “But you look younger and strongerthan ever.” 
“I’m not the only one who does.” Firestar glanced toward the cats heading toward himbetween thetrees. 
Shadowsight’s heart soared as he recognized the glimmering pelts.StarClan had come!They were here in the Dark Forest. Was the barrier untangled? He scanned the trees. Had Bristlefrost and Rootspring fixed it? Where were they? 
He scanned the clearing and spotted Rootspring’s bright yellow pelt. There he is—and Bristlefrost right beside him, of course! Shadowsight raced toward them, scrambling to a halt next to Bristlefrost. He was relieved to see that Stemleaf and Willowshine were still with them. And Berrynose! They’d rescued anotherspirit cat fromAshfur’s control. 
Purring, he blinked at Rootspring. The yellow tom seemed to have even more scratches than before and his fur was sticking out in clumps along his flanks. “Are you okay?” 
“I’mfine.” Rootspring fluffed out his pelt. “Things have been …” He paused for a moment. “Interesting since you left. But it looks like you made it to the Moonpool. Did you run into any trouble?” 
Shadowsight shook his head. “Only once I’d reached the Clans.Ididn’t realizethey’d beso hard to persuade.” 
Bristlefrost’s eyes were shining. “You did it, though.” She looked past him to where Firestar and Mistystar were escorting the Clan patrol toward the clearing. Delight dawned on her face when she spotted Crowfeather, Graystripe,and Violetshine.“You brought help!” 
As she spoke, Violetshine broke into a run and raced for Rootspring. She pressed her nose to his head as she reached him, breathing in his scent, her tail shivering with happiness. “You’re safe.” She closed her eyes, as though herreliefwas too intenseto bear. 
A silver she-cat had followed the SkyClan warrior from the trees, her pelt ruffled excitedly. Shadowsight didn’t recognizeher.“Who’s that?” he asked Bristlefrost. 
“Needletail,” Bristlefrost told him. “She was the first StarClan warriorto makeit through thebarrier.” 
Needletailwas staring at Violetshine,hereyes glistening. Shepurred.“It’s good to seeyou.” 
Violetshine turned to look at the StarClan warrior, her eyes shining in return. She touched her muzzle to Needletail’s cheek. “I can never repay you for what you did for me. You let Darktail kill you so that I could escape. And because of that, I have a family now.” She glanced at Rootspring.“This is my kit.” 
Rootspring nodded politely.“Hi.” 
“I’m so pleased to meet Violetshine’s kit.” Needletail ducked herhead at him. 
Violetshine nodded. “He has a sister,” she mewed softly, leaning over to catch Needletail’s eye. “Actually …I named herNeedlekit.” 
Needletail’s eyes widened.“Did you nameherafterme?” 
“Ofcourse after you.” Violetshine nudged her old friend with hernose.“My kit deserves atruewarrior’s name.” 
Two StarClan she-cats were almost tripping over Graystripe’s tail as Firestar guided him between the trees. Their silver pelts were so glossy that the starlight sparkling in theirfurmade themseemmore like fish than cats. As they reached the clearing, they pushed past the ThunderClan leaderand wound around Graystripe,tails high. 
Shadowsight didn’t recognize them. He nudged Bristlefrost. So much seemed to have happened since he’d left in theDarkForest.“Who arethey?” hewhispered. 
“Feathertail and Silverstream,” she told him. “They’re RiverClan warriors. Feathertail is Graystripe and Silverstream’s kit.” 
Feathertail was purring. “Are you well?” she asked Graystripe. 
“Of course,” he mewed. “Better now than I’ve been in a long time.” 
Silverstream glanced along his flanks. “You’ve put on weight.” 
Graystripe puffed out his chest. “Why does everyone keep saying that?” 
Firestar purred fondly. “I guess you still hate to see anything left on thefresh-killpile.” 
Onestarwas padding eagerly around Crowfeather. “How is WindClan?” heasked. 
“Prey’s been running well, despite everything.” Crowfeather dipped his head to the former WindClan leader. But his gaze was on Feathertail. Shadowsight saw wistfulness there and wondered why. They were from different Clans. Why did they seemto know each other so well? 
Mistystar hurried to greet Willowshine. “I’m so sorry I let you takesuch arisk.” 
Willowshine dipped her head. “You couldn’t have stopped me,” shemewed.“Ihad to try.” 
Mistystar touched her nose to her medicine cat’s head. “You areas braveas any warrior,” she murmured. 
As the StarClan cats greeted their old friends, Shadowsight noticed that there were other cats here he didn’t recognize. And they were clearly not StarClan warriors.They looked morelike cats fromtheDarkForest. 
Rootspring seemed to notice him staring at them. “Bristlefrost recruited them,” he mewed under his breath. “They used to fight for Ashfur. That’s Maggottail,” he added, nodding toward the largest tom. “The she-cat is Sparrowfeather,and that’s Silverhawk.” 
Shadowsight narrowed his eyes as the Dark Forest warriors bunched closer together, staring uneasily at the Clan patrol. They looked strong, at least. But would they be loyal? 
And was that Juniperclaw beside them? Shadowsight vaguely remembered the ShadowClan deputy who’d saved himfromdrowning as a kit.He must be planning to help too. Shadowsight’s heart quickened. He looked around the clearing. StarClan was here, and the living Clans, along with fierce-looking DarkForest warriors and other spirit cats. For the first time, he felt that they might really beat Ashfur. His paws tingled with excitement. 
“Who’s that?” He nodded toward a tortoiseshell StarClan warriorwith a darkgingertail.He was hanging back as though hedidn’t knowany ofthe Clan cats. 
Firestaranswered, padding to join them. “That’s Redtail. He’s even older than me. He died just before I joined ThunderClan.” 
Shadowsight blinked at the ThunderClan cat. “You were stillakittypet then,right?” 
Firestar’s whiskers quivered with amusement. “Yes,” he mewed. “I was still a kittypet. It’s good of you to remind me.” 
Shadowsight felt suddenly hot. Why did I say that? As he shrank beneath his pelt, Firestar padded to the center of the clearing and called to the others. “We need to make a plan. Even with the barrier broken, the Dark Forest is still shrinking.Ashfur’s thrown everything out ofbalance.” 
Crowfeather and Violetshine’s gazes sharpened. Graystripe lifted his muzzle. Feathertail, Silverstream, and Needletailturned to face the ThunderClan leader as Onestar and Mistystarpadded to join him. 
“Ashfur came to hide in the Dark Forest,” Onestar mewed.“But hewon’t beableto hideforlong.” 
Mistystar flexed her claws. “This time, we’re going to takethefight to him.” 
Bristlefrost spokeup.“Howwillwefind him?” 
“Surely, if we wait, he’ll come to us,” Willowshine mewed. 
Mistystar glanced around uneasily. “I don’t think we have time to wait,” she mewed. “This place is shrinking fast.” Channels of dark water gleamed between the trees, and the streamthat edged the clearing was lapping closerto the barrier. Before long, this stretch of forest wouldn’t be wide enough for the patrol of living and dead cats to stand in. 
“There can’t be many more places left to hide,” Rootspring mewed.“And there’llbefewerbeforelong.” 
Maggottail’s pelt ruffled along his spine. “If it’s shrinking for Ashfur, it’s shrinking for us too. We need to find himfast.” 
A shudder rippled through Shadowsight’s fur. Could he usehis connection to thedarkwarriorto locatehim? 
He leaned closer to Rootspring. “I’m going to look for Ashfur,” hemurmured. 
Rootspring jerked his muzzle around, his eyes widening. “What do you mean?” 
“I’m going to see if I can use my connection to him to sense where he’s hiding,” Shadowsight explained. “Keep an eye on me. Wake me up if I start to twitch ormove.” He met Rootspring’s gaze solemnly. “If the connection grows too strong,Imight try to hurt some cat.” 
Rootspring shifted his paws. “Are you sure you’ll be okay?” 
“It’s the only way we can find him quickly,” Shadowsight told him. Before Rootspring could argue, he tuckedhis paws beneathhimand settled onto his belly. He focused his mind until he could sense Ashfur’s presence, like the memory of a nightmare, tugging in his gut. Letting his thoughts drift fromthe clearing, he followed the feeling and let it expand until he could sense the dark warrior’s anger like the heaviness before a storm, and feel frustration pressing inside his chest. 
His ears pricked as he recognized a voice, deep inside his mind, and he fixed on it and let it swell until every thought rang with it. StarClan must be destroyed. It was the same voice that had told himthe codebreakers needed to be punished, the voice that had persuaded him to kill Bramblestar.I will get my revenge. 
He swallowed back dread and invited the voice in. Ashfur. Helet his thoughts callout to thedarkwarrior. 
He felt the airaround himgrowcold,as though leaf-bare had rushed in without warning, and snapped open his eyes. He looked around. He was standing at the bottomofa steep hill, the forest behind him. The grass was muddy and trampled,the blacksky starless. Darkwaterlapped at his tail as he looked up the slope. At the top, the silhouette of a warrior cut a shadow against the sky. The tom’s back was turned,and Shadowsight called out. 
“Ashfur?” Fear tightened his throat as the tom turned around slowly, his face lit with an eerie light that seemed to shine from within. As his gaze reached Shadowsight, his heart seemed to burst,and dread engulfed him. 
It was his own facestaring down at him. 
Every hairon his pelt seemed to shrillwith horror,and as he flinched, something hit him, slamming into him hard—a huge, invisible paw that threw himbackward so sharply his breath caught and darkness closed around him. 


Chapter 
15 


“Shadowsight!” Bristlefrost stared at the unconscious 
medicine cat. What had happened to him? He’d yowled and twitched as he lay in the clearing,but his eyes had remained closed, and now a gash had appeared on his side and was beginning to bleed. 
“Wake up!” Rootspring grabbed him by the scruff and shookhim.Shadowsight grunted but didn’t wake. 
“What’s wrong with him?” Firestar crossed the clearing. Bristlefrost could still hardly believe that the ThunderClan leader had come. It felt unreal that the cat she’d heard so many stories about was here and ready to fight alongside them. He thrust his muzzle close to Shadowsight. “Why won’t hewake up?” 
Mistystar pressed in next to him. “Is he having a vision?” 
Rootspring let go of his scruff. “He was looking for Ashfur,” he explained as the others crowded around him, their pelts bristling with alarm. “They’ve got some kind of connection, and Shadowsight thought he might be able to trackhimdown in adream.” 
“Wake up, Shadowsight.” Willowshine crouched close to the medicine cat and licked his cheekfiercely. “Come back to us.” 
With agroan,Shadowsight blinked open his eyes. 
Relief swept through Bristlefrost. “Are you okay?” She searched his gaze.It was cloudy foramoment,then cleared. 
“Yes,” hemewed weakly. 
Willowshine sniffed the gash along his flank. “Did Ashfurdo this to you?” 
“I don’t know.” Shadowsight pushed himself to his paws, flinching as he did so. He looked at the wound and sniffed it gingerly before shaking out his pelt. “But I’m okay.” 
“It must hurt.” Willowshine glanced around the clearing as though looking for something she could use to treat the wound. 
“It’s all right,” Shadowsight told her, but Bristlefrost could seepain flashing across his face. 
Firestar was watching the ShadowClan medicine cat, his ears twitching.“Did you seewhere Ashfurwas?” 
“I couldn’t tell,” Shadowsight mewed. “I thought I saw him, but then he looked like …me.” He sounded confused. “Idon’t knowwhereIwas.It looked like theDarkForest,but it felt like somewhere else, somewhere I’ve never been before.” His eyes darkened. “We might not be able to reach him.” 
Bristlefrost felt suddenly lost. This was hopeless. What were they doing here? Howcould they everdefeat Ashfurin this shifting DarkForest,where the darkness he fed offonly 
poisoned themand sucked away theircourage? We’re going to die, and StarClan will disappear forever. 
Rootspring padded to her side. “It’s going to be okay,” he whispered. 
She blinked at him. Could he tell how she felt? She saw affection in his gaze, and her heart ached in reply. She touched hermuzzleto his ear.“Ihopeso,” she mewed softly. She ignored the tug at her belly to be home again, where it was safe and familiar and she was surrounded by her Clanmates. At least while she was here in the Dark Forest, shecould bewith Rootspring. 
Firestar straightened, his green gaze suddenly dazzling. “Don’t worry,” he told Shadowsight. “You were brave to try to find Ashfur, but we don’t need visions. We’re warriors and we’re trained to hunt. We’ll find him like we find any prey—with skilland experience.” 
He seemed so certain and unafraid. How could she give up hope when Firestar was with them? And lookhow many allies they had now. Her gaze flitted around the patrol. If everyone stayed strong and focused,perhaps they could do this. Perhaps they could defeat Ashfur and get out of here and backto theliving world. 
Firestar spoke again. “If the water’s rising, Ashfur will make forhigherground. Let’s lookforhimthere.” He headed into the forest where it sloped upward into shadow and began to climb. Graystripe followed, Onestar and Mistystar at his heels. The spirit cats hurried behind them while the Dark Forest warriors fell in with the rest of the patrol and began to make theirway between thetrees. 
Bristlefrost hesitated as Rootspring padded after Violetshine. Should she join him? Perhaps she should catch up to Stemleaf and Berrynose instead. She was worried Violetshine would see how close she and Rootspring had become. Surely she’d disapprove. Bristlefrost was from anotherClan. 
Rootspring glanced back at her, beckoning her with a flickofhis muzzle.“Hurry up.” 
She nodded warily toward Violetshine,who was hopping overa treeroot.Will she mind? 
Rootspring seemed to read her thoughts. He shrugged. “Thepatrolneeds to sticktogether,” he mewed. 
Violetshine turned. “Come on, Bristlefrost. Don’t get left behind.” 
Bristlefrost felt a flicker of surprise. Violetshine had spoken to her like a Clanmate. She hurried to catch up, swapping looks with Rootspring as she fell in beside him. His eyes sparkled.Was heswallowing backapurr? 
The Clan cats picked their way stealthily between the trees, avoiding the pools of dark water, their ears pricked as though patrolling, but the StarClan warriors were less careful. Silverstream and Redtail let their paws swish through fallen leaves,and it was clearthat it had been a long time since they’d had to cross enemy territory. Didn’t they realize Ashfur or his spies could be listening? Silverhawk and Juniperclaw seemed more cautious, treading lightly, but Bristlefrost still feared they weren’t trying hard enough to stay hidden. It was as if they had forgotten that this forest was no longer theirs but belonged to a far more dangerous spirit. 
Bristlefrost’s paws pricked with anxiety. Could Ashfur hear them? Worse, could he sense them? She remembered how the dark warrior had said he knew everything that happened in the forest. Perhaps it made no difference how quiet thepatrolwas.Perhaps Ashfuralready knewthey were thereand was biding his timebeforeheambushed them. 
No. She pressed backa shiver. She mustn’t believe that. She must hold on to hope. Ashfur was a liar. He’d proved again and again that nothing he said could be trusted. And yet uneasestillwormed beneath herpelt. 
She realized that, ahead, the patrolhad stopped. Firestar was standing beneath a silver birch. Its bark was white, like stripped bone, and stood out starkly among the blackened trees. He looked around the patrol, his green eyes oddly bright in the darkness ofthe forest. 
Bristlefrost noticed that ahead of him the trees opened onto a stretch of dark water. She glanced one way, then the other, and saw that it stretched as far as she could see in both directions,arivercutting offtheirway forward.Howfar 
to the otherside? She strained to viewthe path through the darkness but could only make out shadowwhere she hoped to seethefarshore.Had they traveled as faras they could in this direction? 
“Stay clear of the water,” Rootspring warned. “I fell in once and nearly died. It’s not like real water. It will try to crush thespirit out ofyou.” 
Mistystargazed at it in consternation. “If we can’t swim in it,howdo wecross?” 
Onestar picked his way along the shore, as though hoping to find anotherroute. 
Sparrowfeather headed in the other direction and returned a few moments later. “It’s spreading around us.” Fearedged hervoice.“It’llcut offourretreat soon.” 
“No cat’s going to retreat,” Graystripe growled. 
Bristlefrost pressed herpaws into theearth,fighting fear. “Weneed to get to higherground.” 
“How?” Silverstream stared at the dark river lapping at the shore. 
Graystripe glanced around. “We could make a crossing.” He hurried to a boulder sticking up fromthe ground. “With stones.” 
Shadowsight looked doubtful. “How could we move stones big enough to keep ourpaws dry?” 
“The water might be shallow,” Graystripe mewed hopefully. A smaller stone was wedged in beside the boulder. He clawed away the earth holding it and tugged it out with his forepaws, then rolled it toward the water. He pushed it in, but his tail drooped as it disappeared, the surfaceclosing overit as silently as blackfog. 
“Let’s head back before we’re completely cut off,” Crowfeathermewed. 
“No.” Firestar gazed across the water. “If higher ground is overthere,that’s wherewe’llfind Ashfur.” 
Bristlefrost blinked at him. He sounded so certain. But howwould they reach it? 
Crowfeathergrunted. “Ifwe can’t get to him,it makes no difference whereheis.” 
Firestar’s gaze didn’t waver. “We’ll find a way.” He looked at Crowfeather, his wide green eyes showing no glimmerofdoubt.Bristlefrost’s pelt suddenly felt lighter.She could feel her heart beating strongly in her chest, and imagined for a moment that it was beating in time with Firestar’s. They’d have to find a way. The future of the Clans was at stake.And they’d madeit this far,hadn’t they? 
Firestar leaned toward Graystripe and began murmuring quietly to his friend.Mistystarand Onestarjoined them,and as the senior warriors conferred, Bristlefrost looked around. The trees farther downstream were overhanging the water. She headed for them and padded around their trunks, examining theirbranches. 
Rootspring stopped beside her. He followed her gaze along an oak branch that stretched into the darkness. “Are you wondering ifit reaches theotherside?” 
She shook her head. The branch looked thin. “I don’t thinkit’s long enough.” 
Her heart quickened as she spotted a tree farther down the shore that was leaning out overthe water. She hurried to examine it. The land here had contracted, pushing two trees together. An elm had slammed into the roots of a beech, forcing them up and out of the ground so that the trunk tilted across the water, the roots clutching the muddy bank like an animal clinging to safety. “We could climb that,” Bristlefrost suggested. 
Rootspring narrowed his eyes. Bristlefrost saw doubt there.The tree wasn’t leaning overfarenough,and even ifit did,would it reach thefarshore? 
“If we could push it over more,” she mewed hesitantly, “thehighest branches might make it to the otherside.” 
Rootspring sniffed at the roots,which snaked in and out oftheground likeahalf-woven den. 
Bristlefrost jumped down among themand scraped out a pawful of earth. “If we work together, we could dig out enough to loosen its grip.” She didn’t wait forRootspring to comment. This was the best chance they had. She hurried backto thegroup.“I’vegot an idea.” 
Firestarlooked at her.“What is it?” 
She felt suddenly self-conscious. “I don’t know if it will work.” 
Rootspring caught up to her. “Ithinkit’s worth a try,” he told Firestar. 
Firestarblinked at her.“Tellus.” 
Bristlefrost jerked her muzzle toward the leaning beech. “Ithought we might be able to push that tree overand use it to cross thewater.” 
“Push a tree over?” Crowfeather’s ears twitched. 
“It’s already half out of the ground,” Rootspring told him.“We can dig out moreoftheearth around theroots.” 
Bristlefrost nodded. “It’s barely clinging to the bank,” shemewed.“Ifweworktogether,we can loosen it.” 
Firestarwhisked his tail.“Showus.” 
Bristlefrost headed toward the beech, hardly daring to breathe. Firestarmight take one lookat the tree and decide it was impossible.Shehung back,letting the oldercats inspect the roots. 
Graystripe nosed his way between them and began to dig.“Theearth’s crumbly enough,” hemewed. 
Crowfeather and Mistystar hopped in beside him and began to clawat thesoil. 
Firestar looked along the slanting trunk. “We need cats to push on thetrunkas we dig out theroots,” hemewed. 
Berrynose and Stemleaf reached up with their forepaws and began to push. Willowshine and Sparrowfeather crowded in beside them with Violetshine and Silverstream. 
Firestarbegan to dig with Graystripe. 
Bristlefrost glanced up. The branches at the top of the tree began to tremble as the patrol worked around its roots. Would they be strong enough to tip it over? She pressed in besideVioletshine,pushing at thetrunk. 
The tree creaked.More roots were pushed fromthe earth as the cats dug among them. With a groan, the trunkleaned awhiskercloserto thewater,but it held fast to thebank. 
Bristlefrost looked along thetrunkto wherethebranches trembled but stayed stubbornly above the water. Her paws itched with frustration. 
Graystripe looked up from his digging. “If only it were heavierat thetop.” 
Bristlefrost’s heart pounded. She had to make this work. “I’ll make it heavier.” She scrambled up the tree, past Sparrowfeatherand Silverstreamand, standing on the trunk, looked back.“I’llclimb to thetop.” 
Rootspring’s eyes widened in alarm. “It’s too dangerous!” 
Violetshine’s fur bushed. “What if it doesn’t reach the otherside?” 
“What ifyou fall?” Needletailgasped. 
Bristlefrost blinked back at them, aware of Firestar’s steady green gaze. She’d come this far. She couldn’t give up now. “Ican do this,” she insisted. “Iwon’t fallin. And ifit’s not long enough,I’lljust run back.” Even as she spoke,she knewshe was only hoping forthe best.Theremight not bea chance to run back if the tree collapsed into the water and sankbeneath the surface. It can’t. She curled her claws into the bark.It won’t. This was the patrol’s best chance to cross the waterand find Ashfur.She had to taketherisk. 
She avoided Rootspring’s gaze. The fearsparkling in his blue eyes scared her. Instead, she turned and began to pick her way along the trunk. “Keep digging!” she called back. “And push harder!” 
Bark crumbled beneath her paws as she crept onward. Splinters fluttered down and disappeared into the matte-black water. She slowed as the trunk divided and split into thinner and thinner branches, putting one paw carefully in front of the other as though picking her way through a thistle patch. Her breath grew shallow until she realized she was hardly breathing at all. Pausing, she steadied her thoughts and deepened her breath. She could do this. She had to. 
The tree was shivering beneath hernow,and she looked back to see Maggottail and Juniperclaw hop out from around the roots and join the cats straining against the trunk. The branches were so thin now, she didn’t dare go farther. Instead she stopped and sank her weight into the bark, rocking the tree deeper toward the water. Digging her claws in,shehung on,trying not to lookdown. 
The tree grew still beneath her, as though taking a breath. Then,slowly, it began to dip. A groan sounded from the roots, then a whine that grew to a screech as wood twisted and split and the trunk suddenly dropped beneath her. With a jerk it plummeted, falling so fast that Bristlefrost felt wind streaming through her fur. Her heart exploded with panic as she clung on and closed hereyes. If this is the end forme,pleaselet theothersmakeit. 
But the tree crashed to a halt, juddering between her paws, branches quivering around her as it hit solid ground. It must have reached the other side! Behind her, branches splashed into the water and Bristlefrost flinched as droplets sprayed around her.Alarmshrilled through herfur.I can’t let them touch me! They pattered down without splashing her and,relieved,she pushed herselfto herpaws and picked her way to the end of the branch. With a surge of triumph, she leaped onto the far shore and gazed backinto the shadows. She couldn’t see the patrol. “It’s safe!” she called into the darkness.“You can cross.” 
Amoment later,Rootspring appeared fromthe gloom,his pale fur moving like mist among the branches as he hurried along thetrunk. 
“Be careful!” Bristlefrost stared at himas he scampered along thebranches likeasquirrel.“There’s no hurry!” 
He reached her and pressed his muzzle to her cheek. “You scared me,” hemewed. 
“But it worked.” Bristlefrost purred and pulled away.The 
others werefollowing. 
Needletail hopped down beside them. “You were so brave,” she told Bristlefrost,hereyes shining. 
Graystripe and Willowshine reached them,then Stemleaf, who wound around her,purring. 
“That was amazing,” he mewed happily. 
One by one, the patrolfiled across and jumped onto the far bank, each cat blinking at her admiringly as they landed. While they murmured to each other, clearly pleased and relieved to have made it across the darkwater, Shadowsight alone stared nervously up theslope. 
Firestarcrossed last,his paws thumping lightly onto the ground as he landed beside Bristlefrost. “That was a great idea,” he told her.His eyes lit up the gloom.“You werebrave to riskthe climb.” 
Bristlefrost nervously met the ThunderClan leader’s gaze. “Ihad to do it,” she murmured. “Afterwe tried so hard to bring you here,Ihad to find away across.” 
He dipped his head and turned to the rest of the patrol. Shadowsight was staring up the slope, his eyes wide with fear. Beyond the river, the forest thinned and the land stretched up toward a field of long, swaying grass where gnarled trees poked up here and there, and the black, starless sky pressed down upon it like a gathering storm. “We should be quiet,” Shadowsight murmured. “Ashfur’s close by.” Bristlefrost’s paw pricked nervously as he went on.“Ican feelhim.” 
Was he still connected to the dark warrior from his vision? She pressed back a shiver. There was no time to be afraid. They’d come here to face Ashfur. This was their chance. 
“Okay.” Firestar nodded. He glanced at Stemleaf, Berrynose, and Willowshine. “You should hang back,” he told them.“Ifyou seeAshfur,orfeelhimstart to takecontrol ofyou,run away.” 
Berrynosebristled indignantly. 
“No cat here will think any less of you if you leave,” Firestar told him. “We have plenty of warriors, and we’re strong fighters. We’ll be okay without you. The most important thing is to stop Ashfurgetting morepowerful.The fewercats hecontrols,theweakerhewillbe.” 
Berrynose sniffed. “Fine,” he mewed stiffly, and hung backas the rest ofthe patrolbegan to followFirestarup the slope. 
Bristlefrost fell in beside Rootspring and Violetshine as they swished through the long grass. She felt Rootspring’s pelt brush hers as they walked. He didn’t lookat her,but the warmth fromhis furwas comforting. 
“That was the bravest thing I’ve everseen.” Violetshine glanced at her. “You frightened us half to death when you climbed up thetrunk,but Idon’t seehowelsewecould have moved it.” 
Bristlefrost felt a rush ofpride. Nowthat she was on firm ground once more, she could hardly believe she’d done something so daring. Just knowing that she could be so brave filled herwith hope. And she was sure she wasn’t the bravest cat here. Suddenly she could imagine winning this battle and going home. Herheart ached with a longing to be back in the ThunderClan camp. She could almost smell the musty scents of the forest and see the lake glittering between the trees. Ahead of her, the patrol slowed. She tensed.Had they seen something? 
She glanced overhershoulder. Stemleaf, Berrynose, and Willowshine had frozen behind her, their ears pricked with alarm. 
She called in a hushed mew to Stemleaf. “What’s wrong?” 
“Ashfur.” Stemleaf’s pelt bristled along his spine. 
“Is hetrying to controlyou?” sheasked. 
“Not yet.” Stemleaf’s mew was barely more than a whisper.“Hehasn’t realized we’rehere.” 
She hurried on, slipping softly through the grass. She felt Rootspring’s breath at hertail,and as shenosed herway past Maggottail and Silverhawk, she saw Firestar and Graystripe. They were crouching against the earth. Needletail, Redtail, and the others had fanned out and waited in thelong grass,motionless as stones. 
Bristlefrost hurried to Firestar’s side. The ThunderClan leaderwas peering fromthe grass. Aclearing opened ahead. On the far side, a dense thicket of trees, crushed together and tangled by the contracting earth, formed a wall as impenetrable as stone. In front of it, Ashfur was prowling, pacing oneway and then the other. 
He was alone and seemed unaware he was being watched.“I’llmakethempay.” 
Who was he talking to? Bristlefrost scanned the clearing. She couldn’t see anyone else. Is he talking to himself? She tasted the air and smelled the rotten stench of carrion. 
“I’mmake themallpay,” Ashfurgrowled.“They thought they could humiliate me, but I’ll make them grovel before they die.” 
“What’s he doing?” shewhispered to Firestar. 
“I don’t know.” The ThunderClan leader’s eyes were narrowed. “But it’s weird that he’s alone. Surely he must knowit’s dangerous to makehimselfso vulnerable.” 
“Maybe he doesn’t realize we have help now,” Bristlefrost whispered. 
Graystripe sniffed. “More like he’s lost touch with reality,” he growled.“Ashfuralways had bees in his brain.” 
“It could be a trap.” Firestar flicked his tail and the rest of the patrolspread out farther, creeping noiselessly around the edgeoftheclearing. 
Bristlefrost glanced at Rootspring. He’d stopped a tail.length away and was staring between thestems ofthegrass, 
his hackles high. 
“When do weattack?” hewhispered. 
“Wait.” Firestar blinked at Graystripe. “Can you smell any othercat-scents?” 
“Only ourpatrol,” Graystripe told him.“Ithinkhe’s really alone here.” 
Bristlefrost’s pelt fizzed with hope. This was a perfect opportunity.Ifthey could killAshfur,it would breakhis hold on the spirit cats, and the Dark Forest warriors would have no one to follow. They could untangle the StarClan barrier and everything could return to normal. She leaned forward eagerly,tensing,ready forFirestar’s command. 
“Follow me.” The ThunderClan leader crept slowly from the grass and beckoned the patrolinto the open. “Hold your line.” 
Ashfur jerked around. His eyes widened as he saw the StarClan cats and Dark Forest warriors emerge from the grass. As they slowly advanced,he held his ground,his tail to thetangled thicket. 
Bristlefrost’s heart quickened.He’s trapped! 
She searched Ashfur’s gaze, wanting to see fear in his eyes. He’d caused so much suffering, she wanted himto be afraid. He had to understand what he’d done. He should sufferin return. 
But there was no sign of fear. He blinked eagerly at Firestar. “You’re here! Good!” Was that a purr in his throat? It should have been a growl. What’s wrong with him? “I’m pleased to seeyou.” 
Bristlefrost stared at him.Why wasn’t hescared? 
Ashfurlifted his tail.“This is perfect.Betterthan I’d ever imagined.” Bristlefrost exchanged a puzzled glance with Firestar. She could tell he was as confused as she was by Ashfur’s eagerness. Did he think he could win this battle? “Wecan finish this onceand forall.” 
Firestar stared at him. “Don’t you feel any remorse for what you’veput theClans through?” 
“Remorse?” Ashfurlooked puzzled.“What for?” 
“We’ve forgiven you so many times,” Firestar mewed. “StarClan gave you a place among us. A chance to change. And you’ve repaid ourkindness by trying to destroy us. By trying to destroy everything.” 
Ashfur sniffed. “It’s not my fault if StarClan is full of fools. Why should I feel bad because you forgave me? I neverforgave you.” 
Bristlefrost could hardly believe her ears. Didn’t this cat knowwhen he was beaten? 
Ashfur went on, his eyes shining. “I’ve never forgiven anyone.I’mnot weak. Ineverforgave Bramblestarfortaking what was mine. And I’ll never forgive Squirrelflight for rejecting me over and over again. I gave her love and she betrayed me. As though my love was worthless.” He scowled. “I’mgoing to make her suffer more than any other cat.And I’mgoing to enjoy it.” 
Firestar let out a long, low hiss. The stars in his pelt quivered as though fury possessed every muscle in his body. He looked as powerful as a badger, and Bristlefrost wondered why Ashfur thought he could defeat this cat by himself. 
Ashfur stared at himscornfully. “I see that your time in StarClan has not dented your confidence. You and Bramblestar are so alike. You both think you’re the greatest warriors who ever walked the forest. Your arrogance makes my pelt crawl. It’s about time the Clans saw how weak you really are. And when I’m done with you, I’m going to find Squirrelflight and I’mgoing to—” 
Graystripe cut himoff. “Stop babbling,” he growled. He padded closer.“You’velost,can’t you seethat?” 
“Have I?” Ashfur stared at the ThunderClan elder. “Don’t you realize that StarClan isn’t special?” He looked at Crowfeather. “The only difference between you and themis that you’re alive and they’re dead.” His gaze flicked to Violetshine.“They’rejust abunch ofcorpses who can’t bear to give up control. They don’t care what happens to you. They just like telling you what to do so you serve them instead ofyourselves.” 
Mistystar seemed to freeze as the dark warrior glowered at her. 
“What did following yourdead ancestors everbring you except trouble?” he snarled. “They invent problems and then ask you to riskyour lives solving them. If you ignored them, you’d be living happily in peace now instead of fighting.” 
Crowfeather’s ears twitched uneasily.Was the WindClan deputy actually listening to this nonsense? 
“You could all live in peace if you ignored StarClan,” Ashfur pressed. “They’re just keeping you busy so you don’t realize what’s good for you. You’d be better off without them.” 
Violetshine’s pelt ruffled. “It’s hard to believe we ever thought you cared about thewarriorcode,” shehissed. 
Ashfur gave her a withering look. “The trouble is that you’ll believe anything.” He lashed his tail. “That’s why you’re here now, fighting another cat’s battle.” He looked around at the other living cats. “Help me destroy StarClan. You can free yourself from their dumb schemes and live as you want to. You can rule the forests without owing anything to any cat.” 
Mistystar was staring at him without speaking. Bristlefrost stiffened. Had he convinced her? Nervously,she glanced at Crowfeather and Graystripe. Were they going to agree with this outrageous cat? 
Reliefwashed herpelt as Mistystarsnorted. 
“You don’t even deservea warriorname,” shegrowled. 
Crowfeather glared at Ashfur through slitted eyes. “You’re afool,” hegrowled. 
Violetshine flicked her tail. “What are we waiting for?” sheasked Firestar.“Let’s killhim.” 
Bristlefrost flexed her claws. She was ready for battle. She looked at Firestar. Give the order. The sooner they put an end to this fox-heart,the better. 
Ashfur’s eyes sparkled with amusement. He looked pleased with himself. Didn’t he realize this was the end for him? 
The grass behind themswished.Bristlefrost snapped her gaze around. Hereyes widened as a muscularwhite tomslid fromthebushes. 
“Darktail!” 
Mistystar’s hiss set fear sparking in Bristlefrost’s belly. Darktail? Wasn’t he the rogue who had nearly destroyed the Clans beforeshe’d been born? 
Needletail’s fur was on end. Onestar’s eyes widened. Around theclearing,thepatrolbristled with alarmas Darktail padded into the clearing. More cats slunk from the grass, one after another until Bristlefrost’s throat tightened with fear. The patrol was surrounded by cats she didn’t recognize. Their pelts were matted and mangy. Scars crisscrossed their muzzles. Hardly one had an ear that wasn’t torn or a tail that didn’t look half shredded. Who were these cats? 
Darktail stopped and met Ashfur’s gaze. “They came right to us,just likeyou said they would,” hemewed smugly. 
Onestar’s tail twitched. He snarled at the white tom. “What are you doing in the Dark Forest? You’re not a warrior.You don’t belong here.” 
Darktail’s eyes glittered. “Oh, my father. I lived long enough among warriors to earn my place here.” He tipped his head to oneside,his eyes rounding.“Don’t you think?” 
More cats padded fromthegrass,and Bristlefrost’s heart sank as she saw Sandynose, Dappletuft, and Softpelt with the otherspirit cats,staring blindly ahead likesleepwalkers. 
Ashfurhad planned this allalong. 
Darktail went on. “I was surprised as any cat to find myself here, but it’s all worked out. Ashfur has given me a chance for revenge. I failed in life, but in death I can finally destroy the Clans.” 
Firestar curled his lip. “You should never be allowed to walk among warriors, not in life or death. Not even among warriors who harmed theirown Clans.” 
Graystripe’s ears flattened. “How did you bring rogues here?” He looked around Darktail’s patrolin disgust. 
“They died recently, like your Clanmates,” Ashfur told him. “Their spirits were fresh. It was easy enough to bring them here while StarClan was …” He hesitated, as though looking fortheright word.“Busy.” 
Darktail’s whiskers twitched with amusement. “Aren’t you glad they managed to find somewhere to rest aftersuch 
difficult lives?” heasked. 
Firestarhissed.“You’rejust using them!” 
Ashfur lifted his tail. “Really, Firestar,” he scolded. “You’re so naive. Why wouldn’t I use anything I could to destroy the Clans?” 
Darktailblinked expectantly at Ashfur.“Shallwebegin?” 
Bristlefrost felt a chill enfold her as though the air itself had turned to ice. 
“Yes.” Ashfurnodded.“Let’s do this.” 
As he flicked his tail, Darktail reared, and the patrol of rogues and spirit cats surged forward,yowling like a packof hungry dogs. 

Chapter 
16 


Rootspring froze. Time seemed to slow as he watched Darktail streak across the clearing. Ragged, snarling rogues poured after him from the long grass, like a wave of dark water sweeping across the battlefield. Mistystar and Crowfeather disappeared under the flood, and panic shrilled through Rootspring’s pelt as he sawSoftpelt and Dappletuft burst from cover to join the attack. Had Berrynose, Willowshine, and Stemleaf succeeded in resisting the dark warrior’s control? He tried to glimpse themamong the mass ofpelts. Perhaps they’d managed to get away before Ashfur could takecontrolofthem. 
He saw Houndleap, Rushtooth, and Thistleclaw shoulder to shoulder with the rogue spirits. Ashfur clearly still had the loyalty of plenty of Dark Forest warriors. Sandynose lunged at Violetshine. Strikestone raked claws across Silverstream’s muzzle as Clawface and Mapleshade sprinted toward Ashfur and fell in beside him, their teeth bared. 
The Clan patrol was outnumbered. Rootspring lashed out at Rushtooth as the Dark Forest warrior sped past him, but the brown tomhardly seemed to notice. His slitted gaze was fixed on Redtail. Rootspring’s mind whirled as terror threatened to overwhelm him but, as Bristlefrost reared up beside him and slammed her paws into a mottled gray rogue’s flank, his thoughts sharpened likes claws unsheathing.Hewould not let any oftheirpatroldiehere. 
He flung out a paw and hooked the mottled rogue’s leg as she turned on Bristlefrost. Unbalanced, she stumbled, and Bristlefrost leaped onto her back. As yowls exploded into the icy air,hespotted Shadowsight. 
The medicine cat turned, eyes wild, and lashed out clumsily at the rogues as they streamed around him.He can’t fight. He’s a medicine cat. The fresh wound inflicted in his vision gleamed wetly, and the cobwebs around his hind leg fluttered as they fell away. He won’t survive a battle. Rootspring glanced at Bristlefrost. She’d pinned the rogue to the ground and was tearing at her pelt with her hind claws. She could manage for now. He darted across the clearing, dodging around Needletail and ducking Houndleap.“Shadowsight!” 
The medicine cat jerked his muzzle around as Rootspring called his name. 
“Run!” Rootspring crashed into a ginger she-cat as she reared over Shadowsight, sending her staggering backward. Henodded toward thetangled walloftrees behind Ashfur.It was the only placeto hide. 
Shadowsight met Rootspring’s gaze, then looked past him. His eyes flashed with horror. Rootspring turned. Houndleap was rushing at him. The Dark Forest warrior leaped, snarling, and sank his claws into Rootspring’s shoulder. Rootspring fell, thumping to the ground, pain searing his pelt. He saw Shadowsight start toward him. “No!” Thrashing beneath Houndleap, he stared desperately at his friend. “You’re not trained to fight!” he yowled. Shadowsight paused, confusion in his eyes. “Just hide!” Rootspring yelped. “We can’t fight them and protect you!” Shadowsight seemed to understand. Relief swamped Rootspring as he watched the medicine cat turn and race for the trees, scramble up the closest trunk, and haul himself into the branches. 
Rootspring turned his attention backto Houndleap,who was pressing himinto the earth. Rootspring curled his hind legs beneath the Dark Forest warrior’s belly and thrust him away with a vicious kick. He felt the tom’s claws rip free and scrambled to his paws. The ginger rogue glared at him as she recovered her footing. Hissing, she leaped to join Houndleap as herushed Rootspring forasecond attack. 
Rootspring ducked, sliding beneath Houndleap’s outstretched paws. The Dark Forest warrior stumbled over himand crashed into thegingershe-cat.They spat angrily at each other. Rootspring felt a flash of hope. These cats were vicious, but they clearly weren’t used to fighting together. As the rogue turned on him once more, he lashed out and raked her face with his claws. Houndleap grabbed his hind leg, but Rootspring shook him free, jerking around to give the Dark Forest warrior’s forepaw a powerful bite. Houndleap recoiled, pain glittering in his amber eyes as the rogue she-cat lunged forRootspring again. This time she hit himwith suchforce that he staggered. His paw skidded on the slippery earth and he fell. Thinking quickly,he rolled out ofreach,finding spaceto escapeas Maggottailcrashed past him,batting backarogue. 
As Rootspring tumbled clear of the ginger rogue, he heard water softly lapping the earth. He froze, mid-roll, then slowly turned his head, his heart pounding as he saw, a whisker away from his muzzle, a dark pool opening like a wound across the ground. It was spreading from the long grass,eating away at theedgeoftheclearing.Thebattlefield was shrinking! 
He scrambled to his paws, his pelt bristling with alarm. As he backed away, another cat smashed into his hindquarters. The force sent him sprawling forward. Terror ripped through his chest as he stumbled toward the edge of the water. He dug his claws in, gripping as though at the edge of a cliff as he felt the other cat’s paws pushing him harder from behind. He glanced over his shoulder. The ginger rogue had come after him. Her eyes were shining hungrily as shetried to push himinto the water.He dropped, thumping onto his belly, and let his body go limp. The rogue’s eyes widened with surprise. Her forepaws buckled and she lurched forward. Rootspring twisted onto his spine, hooked his hind paws beneath her, and thrust her up and overhis head. With a grunt, he flung her into the water. She hit it with a wailofhorror. Herexpression twisted into shock for a moment, and then she disappeared, the puddle of dark waterswallowing heras though it werealake. 
Icy fearcrept through Rootspring’s furas the watergrew smooth.Not even aripple showed that acat had fallen there. He remembered, with a jolt of horror, falling into the water beside the island, and felt the dark water closing over his head all over again. He felt sick, but pushed the thought away. Behind him, screeches of pain and rage split the air apart. He leaped to his paws and turned, ready to rejoin the fight. 
Amottled rogue barged past himand leaped at a ginger.and-white tom. Rootspring stiffened. Stemleaf? He hadn’t managed to get away. He scanned the clearing and saw Berrynose near the center. Both warriors were here! Rootspring hesitated. Had they seen the size of the enemy patrol and come to help? His belly tightened. Was Ashfur controlling them? Then he realized that Berrynose was fighting Strikestone with a flurry of well-aimed blows. He blinked as Stemleafleaped at the mottled rogue and knocked him backward. They were fighting against Ashfur’s cats. Rootspring felt a rush ofexcitement.They’re on our side! 
Rootspring darted over to Stemleaf, rearing up beside him as the tom lashed out at Rushtooth. “Don’t get too close to Ashfur,” Rootspring said, nodding toward the dark warrior, who was crouching in front of the tangled wall of trees while Mapleshade and Thistleclaw blocked him from the battle.“He might takecontrolofyou again.” 
“Do you think I don’t know that?” Stemleaf grunted. “It’s not like I have much choice.” He glanced toward an ominous shadowseeping across the earth.It was darkwater, oozing from the other side of the clearing, pushing them backtoward the trees.Rootspring pressed away panic.They needed to finish this battle quickly, while there was still enough spaceto fight. 
“Stay strong,” hetold Stemleaf. 
Stemleaf nodded. “I’ve been thinking of Spotfur.” His eyes burned with determination. “I hope that if I can just focus on herand ourkits,I’llbeable to resist Ashfur’s will.” 
As Rushtooth dropped into an attack crouch in front of them, Stemleaf nudged Rootspring away. “I’ve got this,” he growled. 
Rootspring nodded. He wasn’t going to muscle in on Stemleaf’s fight. Another warrior might need his help. He just hoped that Ashfur was too busy trying to manage the other spirit cats. If he did manage to take control of Berrynose and Stemleaf too, they’d be even more outnumbered. 
Scanning the clearing again,Rootspring spotted Firestar fighting shoulderto shoulderwith Graystripe as the two old friends faced a ring of rogues. A tabby darted forward, excitement gleaming in his eyes. With a swift jab, Firestar raked his claws across his muzzle. Another took his place, but Graystripe batted her back with a swinging blow while Firestar kicked out with his hind paws, thrusting away a ginger tom who lunged at them from the rear. As though sharing the same thoughts, the two old friends kicked and swiped at theirattackers, turning in a rapid circle,theirpaws working together to meet every muzzle and claw with such perfect timing that it seemed as though they’d trained for exactly this moment. Between swipes, Firestar’s gaze flitted toward Ashfur.TheThunderClan leaderwas clearly trying to edge the fight toward the darkwarrior,but the ring ofrogues kept them at bay. Meanwhile, Mapleshade and Thistleclaw guarded Ashfur with slitted eyes and flattened ears, as though heweretheirkit. 
Perhaps, Rootspring thought, if he joined Firestar and Graystripe, they might gain the advantage and push their way through to Ashfur. He headed toward them, dodging Feathertail as she rolled past, a snarling tom held in her fierce grip. He leaped past Crowfeather as the WindClan warrior dragged Houndleap to the ground and held him there. Rogues snapped and hissed like a swarm of rats as Rootspring wove between them. There were too many to fight, but if they could get to Ashfur, the dark warrior’s patrolmight abandon thebattle. 
As heneared thering ofrogues,an anguished yowlrang over the clearing. Rootspring froze. It was his mother’s cry. It pierced his heart like a thorn and he swung his gaze around. At the edge of the clearing, hemmed in by dark water, Violetshine faced two rogues. A tabby tom battered her with outstretched claws. A black she-cat tore at her tail. But Violetshine was fast.She swung herforeleg at the tabby, knockinghis paws away, and thrust himbackward withher head.Then shespun and slashed theshe-cat’s ears. 
As blood sprayed the earth,Violetshine’s desperate gaze flitted across the stretch of dark water. She yowled again. “Needletail!” Panic edged her mewand Rootspring followed her gaze. Her cry hadn’t been for herself but for her friend. Needletailwas on herbelly,crouched defensively beside the water,hereyes round with fearas Darktailloomed aboveher. 
Rootspring hared toward Needletail. Claws raked his flank, but he ripped free and dragged his paws clear of snapping jaws as he ran. Darktail lifted his forepaws and began to swing them down, his face twisted with malice. Rootspring pushed harder against the earth and leaped, skimming the surface of the dark water like a hawk, and slammed into Darktail before the rogue’s paws could reach Needletail. He shoved Darktail backward as hard as he could. 
The white rogue met Rootspring’s gaze as he staggered away. Rootspring followed, flinging his paws around himto wrestle himto the ground. Darktail’s eyes lit with shockfora moment, and then he collapsed like a rotten corpse beneath Rootspring’s paws. Surprise sparked through Rootspring. Unbalanced, he staggered. Then Darktailreared. Rootspring froze as the powerful tom rose like a crow against the starless sky and swung a forepaw down toward him, spiked with claws as long as blackthorns. 
Rootspring dodged them as they flashed toward his cheek, then ducked, cutting one way, then another, to avoid the flurry. He heard claws slice the air beside his ear, and twisted just in time to escape the blow,halfblind with panic. Dread hollowed his belly.Wherewas thewater? 
Dizzy,he glanced down.He sawa darkpuddle beside his paws and, heart lurching, sidestepped right into a vicious swipe. Pain burned his earas he felt it tearand saw his own blood spatter the earth. He felt Darktail’s claws hookthe fur on his shoulders. With a yowl of triumph, the rogue hauled him off his paws and flung him to the ground. Rootspring kicked out with his hind paws but felt only air as Darktail pinned him.Hestruggled against therogue’s powerfulpaws, agony screaming through his pelt. He was beaten,unable to escape,thedarkwatermerely awhiskerfromhis cheek. 
Darktail’s eyes shoneexcitedly.“Good-bye,” hesnarled. 
Rootspring gavealast desperatepush as Darktail’s teeth flashed toward his throat. Then he glimpsed silver fur. Needletail had grabbed Darktail’s scruff. She yanked him backward. But Darktail was as strong as a fox. He held fast to Rootspring with his claws,choking him. 
Rootspring thrashed desperately but couldn’t escape. His courage vanished as though dark water had swallowed it. Howhad he thought they could everwin this battle? This was the Dark Forest. Cats like Darktail and Ashfur thrived here,growing everstrongeron the misery and hopelessness that tainted every breath of fetid air and every blackened branch. Rootspring felt hope fade like the dying light of the evening sun as Darktail’s eyes glittered with a wild viciousness Rootspring had only ever seen in Ashfur’s gaze. 
We’re going to die. We’re all going to die. He glanced across theclearing.Bristlefrost! His heart seemed to crackin two.He’d let herdown. 
Suddenly, black-and-white fur flashed at the edge of his vision. Violetshine was leaping over the dark water. She landed beside Needletail, her pelt bristling with rage. With a yowl, she sankherteeth into Darktail’s neckand hauled him backward. 
The ragged white tom’s eyes widened in surprise as he let go ofRootspring.Needletailhad his hind leg between her jaws and was dragging him down onto his belly as Violetshine swung a hefty blow at his ear. It sent Darktail rolling across theground. 
Needletail leaped after him. “You’re going to pay for making me suffer.” She struck him across the muzzle with 
outstretched claws. 
Darktailgrunted and scrambled up. 
Needletail hit him again. “And for the pain you caused Violetshine!” 
Violetshine darted past her, grabbing Darktail’s throat with herforepaws and thrusting himbackto the ground.She held him there, churning his belly with her hind paws. “Haven’t you brought enough misery to the Clans?” Her eyes burned with rage. “I’ll never forgive you for what you did to me and Needletail.” 
She rolled off him and landed beside Needletail. Both she-cats watched with cold hatred as Darktailhauled himself up and swayed on his paws. Then Needletaillashed out,her claws raking his eye.Darktailgave an agonized yowl,reeling away, too stunned now to defend himself. Violetshine slashed his cheek, then Needletail, as they drove him back toward the long grass. 
Rootspring dragged himselfto his paws,shaking out his bloody pelt. He watched,hardly breathing as his motherand Needletail swung blow after blow at the evil rogue until his paws buckled and hecollapsed. 
“Is hedead?” Violetshinestared at him,herteeth bared. 
Needletailleaned down and sniffed his muzzle. Then, as fast as a snake, she clamped her jaws around his neck. Darktailtwitched once more,then fellstill.Drawing back,her jaws bloody,Needletaillooked at Violetshine.“Heis now.” 
Rootspring could suddenly feelthe icy airreach through his fur. He pressed backa shiver. Behind him,the patrolwas still fighting. Their screeches echoed over the clearing. He turned. Was that a rogue disappearing into the long grass? Darktail had seemed to command the spirit rogues. Would his followers flee,nowthat hewas dead? 
As hope flickered in his chest, he spotted Bristlefrost. She was wrestling a tabby, her eyes flashing with fury as a gray tomsankhis teeth into hertail.Houndleap was heading toward her,his eyes slitted.Thebattle wasn’t overyet. 
Rootspring charged across the clearing. This time he didn’t swerve or dodge. He barged his way through the fighting cats, ignoring the jaws snapping at his tail, shaking off any claw that hooked his pelt. As he raced past Juniperclaw, a rogue she-cat tried to reach for him, but the former ShadowClan deputy seized her and dragged her away. Rootspring blinked at Juniperclaw, grateful the Dark Forest warrior was on their side. Then he charged after Houndleap. He grabbed the scrawny black tom with his claws and flung him away. Then he pulled the tabby off Bristlefrost. 
“Thanks.” Bristlefrost blinked at him, exhilaration in her eyes, and scrambled quickly to herpaws. Pressing in beside him, she kicked out at the rogue tearing at her tail and knocked him away. As the tabby reared for another attack, Rootspring darted forward and nipped his hind leg. He staggered backward. As Rootspring straightened, he felt Bristlefrost’s flankagainst his. She caught his eye and gave anod. 
Together they lashed out at the rogues, driving them back with well-aimed blows. Was this how it felt for Firestar and Graystripe? Rootspring felt he could anticipate her every move and weave his own among them. They knocked a gray tomout of the way and sent a tortoiseshell running for cover with a barrage of blows. As they beat a path through thebattle,cats began to backaway. 
Rootspring’s heart soared. The pain of his wounds seemed to fade. They were going to win. He was fighting beside Bristlefrost and they were working together as though they’d shared a mentor. Suddenly he knew that she was more important to himthan anything. Why had he ever hesitated? If there was any cat he’d give up his Clan for, it was her. 
And if they escaped the Dark Forest, that was exactly what hewould do. 


Chapter 
17 


Shadowsight gripped the slippery bark of the branch he’d scrambled onto, digging his claws in as the tangled thicket of trees shuddered around him. The earth beneath was buckling under their roots. Was the Dark Forest shrinking even more? Dark water was oozing faster fromthe edges of the clearing, cutting swaths across it. Around the clearing, the wide stretch of shadowy grassland seemed to rise and fall,heaving likean ocean. 
He hardly breathed as he watched the battle below, shoving down every urge to scramble down to defend his friends. I’ll only get in the way. The thought made him cringe with shame. But it was true. He had no battle skills, and the fresh wound in his flank stung even more than the gash on his hind leg. It had been hard enough climbing into the trees. The thought of jumping down made him flinch. And,though it was humiliating to hide up here,heknewthat he would only distract his friends ifheput himselfin danger. 
But hope was starting to flicker in his chest. He’d seen Violetshine and Needletail kill Darktail. Since then, rogues had started to slip away into the long grass. A few of the spirit cats seemed to have lost heart as well, as if Ashfur’s control of them was slipping, and he had apparently not even tried to retake control of Stemleaf and Berrynose. 
Dappletuft had slunkquietly away,and Sandynosehad been chased fromthe clearing by Stemleafwhile Berrynose drove Conefoot, snarling, for cover. The StarClan warriors had managed to strip Ashfur of his guard. Even now, Feathertail and Onestar were pushing Mapleshade back, and Redtail and Needletailhad sent Thistleclaw racing for the shelter of the grass. Shadowsight could see it rippling around the clearing as the beaten cats fled. 
As Bristlefrost and Rootspring fought back a group of rogues, Firestar, Graystripe, and Mistystar were slowly advancing on Ashfur. The dark warrior seemed unaware of the danger. He was pacing beneath the tangled thicket, his pelt ruffling along his spine as hesnarled to himself. 
“You’llsuffer for what you’ve done to me,” he growled. He seemed to have lost focus on the battle. No wonder the spirit cats weretaking theirchanceto flee. 
Shadowsight shifted on his branch, watching Ashfur as Firestar, Graystripe, and Mistystar closed in, their eyes narrow as they blocked any chance of escape. But Ashfur didn’t seem interested in escaping. He barely even seemed to notice as Firestar and Mistystar hung back while Graystripepadded closer. 
“You’re scared of StarClan’s anger,” Ashfur muttered to himself. “But you think you can do what you like to me without ever having to pay. I’ll show you how wrong you are.” Did heeven realizehewas losing? 
As Graystripe reached him, Ashfur paused and blinked as though he didn’t understand where the ThunderClan elder had come from. Perhaps now he’d see that his allies were deserting him. Shadowsight leaned forward, straining to hearas Graystripestopped in front ofthedarkwarrior. 
“I’ve got a message from Squirrelflight,” Graystripe growled. 
Ashfur pricked his ears. “What is it?” Was that hope in his eyes? Did he still believe Squirrelflight had anything good to say to him? 
Shadowsight held his breath as Graystripewent on. 
“She wants you to know that she cared about you once.” Graystripe stared unwaveringly at the darkwarrioras he passed on Squirrelflight’s message. “She considered you more than a Clanmate… . She kept on caring about you— even loved you—as a friend until she discovered you were willing to killthecats you believed to be herkits.” 
Ashfur’s eyes rounded, as though he was struggling to understand. 
Graystripe went on. “That was when she realized she could never, ever have loved you. And that your love was rotten. It wasn’t even love. You just wanted to possess her. She wants you to know that, whatever way the battle went today, it would always have been Bramblestar she chose. Shewants you to thinkabout why she’d always choosehim. She wants you to finally understand why Bramblestaris and always willbethecat shetruly loves.” 
Disbelief began to cloud Ashfur’s gaze. “But I came backfromthedead forher.” 
Graystripe snorted. “You should have stayed dead, because Squirrelflight will never love you. She loves Bramblestar, and ThunderClan, and nothing you can do will —” 
Ashfur’s hackles rose as though,at last, he understood. Ears flattening, he let out a sharp screech and lunged at Graystripe. Shadowsight’s heart lurched as the ThunderClan elder was flung backward. Firestar darted forward, but the dark warrior had hauled Graystripe to the ground before he could reach him and was tearing at his pelt like a vicious hawk,opening deep gashes in the elder’s belly. Firestartried to drag Ashfur off, but Ashfur knocked him away, fury fueling his frenzied attack. 
Shadowsight pressed back nausea as the smell of Graystripe’s blood rose above every other scent of battle. Then his pelt spiked.The long grass was rustling.Amoment later, rogues began streaming back into the clearing. Mapleshade and Thistleclaw followed, driving the ragged cats into battleoncemore. 
Violetshine andSilverstreamjerked their muzzles toward the attacking mob. Bristlefrost turned, shock clear on her face. Rootspring backed away, his bloody pelt rippling in surprise. They exchanged glances, then charged forward, meeting thefresh wavewith angry yowls. 
Panic jabbed Shadowsight’s heart. Could the Clan cats fight off the dark warrior’s horde a second time? Berrynose and Stemleaf were still farther off, chasing rogues through the long grass. Needletail and Onestar were gone too. Had the rogues’retreat been a plot to drawthe StarClan warriors away? 
“Help!” Shadowsight yowled into the icy air. “They’ve come back!” As his screech rang out over the shadowy meadow, he felt the branch tremble beneath him. He froze, gripping harder to the bark. The branch was moving. He heard it creak. The tangle of trees clattered around him. The earth around their roots buckled tighter, and, as it did, Shadowsight’s tree began to lean. The branch he clung to ripped away fromthe trunk, enough to tip Shadowsight off balance. His hind claws lost theirgrip. His legs slipped over the edge,and,heart pounding,he dangled,his paws waving helplessly overthe clearing as rogues swarmed beneath him. Any cat could reach up and drag himdown. He scrabbled, trying desperately to clamberbackonto the branch,the pain in his wound like fire. But the branch was tearing farther away from the trunk, the wood splintering, until, with a crack,it brokeoffand Shadowsight felt himselffalling. 
Terrorburst across his mind. Flailing,he dropped and hit the sharp spine of a rogue. He felt its pelt beneath himfor a moment,then slithered onto the ground. Agony blinded him as he collapsed onto his injured leg.Bodies thrashed around him. Pushing himself to his paws, he struggled to see through his pain as the fresh wound in his flank stretched and opened. A shoulder thumped into his cheek, sending himreeling. A hip crashed against his as he tried to recover his balance. He could not tell friend from enemy in the chaotic whirl of pelts. Teeth snapped beside his cheek. He recoiled. Claws sliced the air behind his head. Snarls and shrieks filled his ears. 
As he crouched, frozen with fear, he felt the ground roll beneath him. It seemed to rise, and he wondered if he was imagining that it lifted himabove the other cats and carried himbacklike a wave. He closed his eyes.Perhaps the rest of StarClan was watching over him even here. Perhaps they’d rescued him.But,as heopened his eyes oncemore,hecould see that he wasn’t safe. The earth had lifted and pulled him clearofthefighting cats,but darkwaterencircled him. 
He stared at it,dread hardening in his belly as the stream widened. His tail bushed as the ground began to drop. It sank lower, the water closing in as it quickly swallowed the earth around him.Hehad to escapebeforeit reached him.He stared across the stream, his flank throbbing, his leg stiff. Could he jump that far? He had no choice.Drawing up every whisker of energy, he gritted his teeth and leaped. As he flung himself over the dark water, pain stabbed deep, like vicious thorns in his leg. He landed clumsily on the dry ground and staggered to find his balance. StarClan, help me! His strength seemed to drain away, and he swayed backward. 
As he tried not to fall,a tabby rogue caught his eye. The rogue’s whiskers twitched with pleasure as he fixed his gaze on Shadowsight, like a hunter glimpsing prey. Turning toward him, he began to charge, and he knew at once what the rogue intended. He glanced back at the dark water. He’s going to push me in! Terror gripped his heart like eagle claws. He tried to run, but his hind leg buckled. Fighting to find his balance,he felt the wateryawning greedily,reaching towardhim, ready to suckhimdown as the rogue pounded nearer. Unable to flee, Shadowsight closed his eyes. I’m going to die. He was abandoning his friends in this place. Hehad been littlehelp to them,but nowhewas leaving them forever.I’m sorry. 
Pale gray fur flashed in front of his eyes. It brushed his muzzle, a scent sweeping over him like a warm breeze. Bristlefrost! She blocked the rogue’s attack, hissing out of the cornerofhermouth.“Run!” 
Shadowsight found his paws and fled,pain flaring in his wounds. He scrambled, half running, half limping past the dark water, running for safety at the edge of the clearing, away from the fight. Shame tugged in his belly. He hated howscared he was.Hehated running away. 
Frustration boiled beneath his pelt, but as he neared the long grass, he faltered. Every thought seemed to drain from his mind, every feeling seemed to die as energy flooded out of himlike blood gushing froma wound. He slumped to the ground, the battle growing hazy around him. Only gratitude remained.Bristlefrost had saved him. 
Hefelt his head lolland darkness press at theedgeofhis vision. Was he dying? As consciousness ebbed away, he saw Ashfur. The dark warrior was running toward him, his gaze fixed with purpose. He shouldered his way through the fighting cats, and yet it seemed that no one else saw him. Shadowsight felt horror flood his body as Ashfur pounded nearer. Gasping with shock, he felt the dark warrior crash into him,beforehewas swept away by unconsciousness. 
He opened his eyes into what felt like a dream. Silence surrounded him, the air thick, as though a storm hovered close.He was standing on foursteady legs.Looking around, he sawthat the gloomy meadowhad disappeared.There was no battle here, no tangled thicket of trees, only gray cloud above, around, and below. It enveloped his paws and swirled around him.Am I dead? 
Not yet. Ashfur’s voice answered him, filling his thoughts likean owlcrying in the night. 
Shadowsight jerked around, scanning the grayness. Ashfur’s eyes flashed in the murk, and the dark warrior padded forward, gleeful spite in his gaze. He stopped in front ofShadowsight. 
“Whereare we?” Shadowsight fought backrising panic. 
“In yourmind,” Ashfurmewed.“We’re connected,don’t forget.This placeis as much minenowas it is yours.” 
Shadowsight shookhis head.“Get out!” 
Ashfur purred. “You’re dying,” he mewed. “If I leave you here,therewillbenothing left to tieyou to life.” 
Shadowsight stiffened with anger. “If I’m dying, let me die.” 
“You don’t have to die.” Ashfur padded around him, trailing his tailalong Shadowsight’s spine. 
Shadowsight shuddered and shook it off. He eyed the dark warrior. He could sense Ashfur scheming. “Leave me alone.” 
Ashfur wasn’t listening. “You can join me,” he mewed smoothly,stillpacing around Shadowsight. 
“Why would Ijoin you?” Shadowsight glared at him. 
“I can get you out of here. You can live.” Ashfur’s ears twitched excitedly.“Allyou haveto do is killBristlefrost.” 
“You’re bee-brained!” Shadowsight stared at him. “Why would Ido that?” 
“It would end the battle,” Ashfur mewed. “You’d sacrifice one life to save many.” He stopped in front of Shadowsight. “She’d never see it coming. Her guard would be down.It would beso easy,even you could do it.” 
“Iwould never—” 
Ashfur ignored him. “Once Bristlefrost is dead, Rootspring willbetoo heartbroken to fight.Finishing himoff would be like plucking a baby mouse fromits nest. He’ll be gone, and so will Bristlefrost, and you’ll be on my side.” Ashfurpurred.“With you three out ofthe way,even Firestar will lose heart. The battle will end. There will be peace.” He thrust his muzzle close to Shadowsight’s. “Don’t you want that?” 
Shadowsight met his gaze. Peace. Of course he wanted peace. Every cat in the forest wanted peace after the chaos of the past moons. But not like this. “I want the battle to end,” he mewed slowly. “But only because you’ve been defeated.” 
Ashfur’s eyes widened and glittered with rage. He drew away sharply, his lip curling. “You really thinkyou’re one of them,don’t you?You thinkyou belong in theClans.” 
“OfcourseIbelong in the Clans!” Shadowsight snapped back. “My father is Tigerstar. I’m a ShadowClan cat to my bones.I’verisked my lifeto help them.” 
“ShadowClan?” Ashfur’s whiskers twitched. “Your mother is from ThunderClan. You’re a half-Clan cat. And you’vebeen weird since you were a kit.Ifyourfatherwasn’t theirleader, do you thinkyourClan would accept you?” His tailflicked ominously.“You have visions but you don’t even know who sends them. You can’t fight. You helped me escape. You killed the leader of ThunderClan.” His gaze flicked over Shadowsight, who shifted his paws self.consciously. 
Everything he said was true, but that didn’t mean Shadowsight didn’t belong. 
Ashfur went on. “Do you think your precious patrol didn’t see you back there in the battle? Do you think they didn’t notice you hiding in a tree while they were risking their lives? Do you think they don’t mind having to rescue you over and over again?” He snorted with scorn. “You’re no help to them.You’realiability.” 
Shadowsight forced himself not to back away. He wanted the grayness to enfold himand muffle this warrior’s words. There was too much truth in them. And yet he knew his friends valued him. Bristlefrost had just saved his life, hadn’t she? He trusted her. He trusted Rootspring. But this cat? Shadowsight met Ashfur’s gaze and held it, staring deep into its corrupt depths.This cat was a liar.No cat could trust him. And his taunting was not going to work. Shadowsight narrowed his eyes. “You won’t ever convince me again that Idon’t belong in the Clans,” he mewed slowly. “Or that no cat cares about me. They do. I have kin. I have Clanmates.Ihavefriends.IknowwhereIbelong.” 
Ashfur’s gaze seemed to falter. The dark warrior backed away. Then he began to fade,dissolving into the gray cloud until he was barely visible. Suddenly his eyes flashed one last look of hate. “We’ll see about that,” he snarled and disappeared. 
Shadowsight blinked, relieved that the dark warrior was gone. But the clouds still swirled, and the air grew thicker until it seemed to smother him. He shook himself. He couldn’t stay here.Ifhe did,he would die.But howcould he escape? Had he gone too far? Was there any way to make it backto life? 

Chapter 
18 


Bristlefrost ducked. The rogue’s claws nicked her ear. Ignoring the sting, she darted forward and slid between the tabby’s legs. As she thrust her head up hard into his belly, the rogue grunted and flicked his hind legs into the air. Twisting on his forepaws,hefaced Bristlefrost oncemore. 
Bristlefrost wanted to look over her shoulder. Had she given Shadowsight enough time to run clear? This rogue had been about to push himinto thedarkwater. 
The rogue lashed out with outstretched claws. Bristlefrost batted him away before he could reach her muzzle. Pushing hard with her hind paws, she flung herself at the tabby,hooked herclaws into his pelt,and hauled him, wriggling, to the ground. She held tight, rolling the rogue onto his spine and holding him so close that he couldn’t fold his hind legs into his belly. 
Every wound stung; every muscle ached. She’d thought this battle was over when Firestar and Graystripe had surrounded Ashfur.But thefleeing rogues had returned,and the clearing was filled once more with the smells and sounds ofbattle. 
The rogue pushed himself free of her grip. Bristlefrost scrambled to her paws. She walked backward, luring the rogue away from the dark water that was seeping ever farther across the clearing. The rogue stalked after her, narrowing his eyes, ready for a fresh attack. Bristlefrost glanced past him.Shadowsight was nearthelong grass,safe from the water. But he was stumbling. As she watched, he collapsed. Her heart seemed to stop. Shadowsight was injured! 
The rogue leaped toward her. She reared to defend herself, but the rogue lunged for her hind paw and sank his teeth in, hard. Bristlefrost yowled as pain arced up her leg. She swung her paws down onto the rogue’s shoulders and grabbed his pelt.Digging in herclaws and tossing himto the side, she forced himto release her paw, then pressed himto the earth and leaped onto his back. Churning herhind paws against the rogue’s spine, she glanced again at Shadowsight. 
Her pelt spiked in panic. Ashfur was beside him. The dark warrior had grabbed Shadowsight’s scruff between his teeth and was hauling himtoward thedarkwater. 
No! She had to save Shadowsight before Ashfur threw himin. 
The rogue thrashed beneath her. She felt power in his muscles. As he pushed against the earth, she slid from his back. There wasn’t time for this. She had to finish this fight now. She thrust her muzzle toward his neck and bit down. The roguejerked beneath her,then felllimp. 
Spitting fur from her mouth, Bristlefrost leaped up and hared toward Shadowsight. Ashfur was dragging the medicine cat’s unconscious body closerto the darkwater. A smallblack-and-brown splotched tomloomed in front ofher, hissing with his teeth bared. There was something familiar about him…Antfur!He was a ShadowClan warriorwho had died in newleaf,but nowhewas underAshfur’s control.She hooked his forepaws from beneath him and, as he fell, shoved him away and kept running. Another tom crashed into herflank,unbalancing her,but she let herselffall,rolled, and, as the rogue leaped on top of her, gripped him and raked his belly with herhind claws.He yowled with pain and she threw him off, jumping up and pelting once more for Shadowsight. 
The medicine cat was only a tail-length from the water. Ashfur’s ears were flat, his eyes slitted as he dragged the helpless tomcloser. 
“Leave himalone!” Bristlefrost batted anotherrogue out of the way as he lunged at her, her focus never leaving Shadowsight. She had to get to him. Her muscles burned with the effort. She barged past Houndleap as he wrestled with Silverhawk, then pushed her way between Rushtooth and Silverstream.“I’mcoming!” 
Claws hooked her hind leg and she fell sprawling onto the ground. She twisted her head and saw Thistleclaw. The Dark Forest warrior’s teeth glistened as he drew back his lips. He leaped at her, the force of his attack so fierce it knocked the wind fromher lungs. She struggled to get free, but he pinned her shoulders to the earth. Kicking out with her hind legs, she tried to push him away, but he held her firm,snarling in herear. 
“Areyou ready to die?” 
Panic pulsed in her blood. She reached up and sank her teeth into his foreleg. His grip loosened and she writhed, feeling her pelt tearing free of his claws. As she fought to find her paws, something heavy thudded against her cheek. She felt more claws slash through her fur and turned to see Mapleshade glaring at her. The DarkForest she-cat grabbed her scruff, lifted her up, and raked her claws along her neck. Bristlefrost’s head swam, and her vision blurred as she felt blood spurt from the fresh wound. She staggered and dropped to her belly, frustration clawing at her chest as the weight ofMapleshade thumped onto herback.Paws were all around her now, swiping and clawing. She felt Thistleclaw’s teeth in her tail as Mapleshade pressed her muzzle into the earth.She was helpless,gagging as blood filled hermouth. 
“Shadowsight!” She strained to see past the blur of pelts, but they blocked herview. Howcould she free herself fromso many cats?As despair droppedlike astone in her chest, she heard a yelp of surprise. The weight was lifted fromherback. 
She pushed herself up, her flanks heaving. Turning heavily, she saw Violetshine and Rootspring. Gratitude flooded her. She shook the blood from her mouth, and as Thistleclaw dived at her again, she knocked his paws from beneath him. Violetshine was forcing Mapleshade back toward the middle of the clearing, jabbing at her with quick, vicious swipes. Rootspring leaped at Thistleclaw, shoving himdown and raking his muzzle. 
Bristlefrost wanted to thankthem, but Shadowsight was in trouble. There was only enough time to catch Rootspring’s eye as he pushed Thistleclaw’s muzzle into the dirt. She had so much to say to him, so much that she should have said before the battle. Her heart ached as he returned her gaze, his eyes widening when he saw the wound in her neck. Then he glanced past her to the dark water. 
Shadowsight was at the edge,Ashfurstanding overhim. Beyond them, the pool was widening, spreading across the clearing. Bristlefrost flattened her ears. She had to stop Ashfur. He had hurt so many cats already—she couldn’t let himkill Shadowsight. Her nostrils flared as she remembered allthe time she’d spent wanting to please the impostor,even as his demands became strangerand stranger. She knewhim better than any Clan cat, except, perhaps, Shadowsight. She knewhowtruly dangerous he was. 
As Ashfur shifted his weight, she saw her opportunity. But I have to move now. There was no time to second-guess herself.Sheknew,deep in herbones,that this was right. 
Without thinking, she glanced at Rootspring. I’m sorry! Rootspring’s eyes flashed with alarm,as though he guessed what she meant to do.She blinked at him. There was no way to tell him everything she wished she could. I have no choice. Without wasting another second, she spun and raced forShadowsight. 
Rootspring’s yowl echoed behind her. “Wait!” His cry was desperate, but she couldn’t stop. Ashfur had his paws against Shadowsight’s flank. One shove and the medicine cat would begoneforever. 
StarClan help me! The thought seemed ridiculous. StarClan was here,fighting besideher. 
When she reached Shadowsight, she pushed her hind paws harder against the earth than she’d ever done before and launched herself at Ashfur. The dark warrior was silhouetted against the reflectionless surface of the widening pool. Ducking her head low, she crashed into him, and as he collapsed, she tumbled over him, and over Shadowsight. Herheart seemed to slowalong with time,and she looked down and saw the dark water yawn below her. Therewas no way to avoid it. 
She hit it like breaking through ice. Cold wrapped itself around her, gripping so hard that it thrust the breath from herbody. She sank,darkness closing around her.Fight! She knew she should kick. She should thrash against the freezing blackness. She reached for thoughts ofRootspring. 
She tried to see his sky-blue eyes. She tried to hear his gentle mew.Ifonly shecould hold on to him… 
She felt movement beside her and twisted, her fur billowing around her. Something was flailing a tail-length away.Shadowsight? Had she sacrificed herselffornothing? Panic flared in every hair. She struckout,ready to fight. She would save him.Shehad to. 
But when she saw the face of the cat beside her, she froze. It wasn’t Shadowsight who’d fallen in. Ashfur was thrashing his paws as hefought to reach thesurface. 
No! I can’t let him escape the water… . 
Bristlefrost lunged, taking two clawfuls of the dark warrior’s fur and letting her weight sink into her hindquarters, turning her body to the side and pushing him away with allherstrength. She watched himsinktoward the darkness below. His face was distorted by the water,and yet the terror in it was clear. Bristlefrost felt a surge of triumph. They’d done it! Ashfur was scared at last. He saw her, his eyes rounding with disbelieffora moment before he slipped fromsight and vanished into shadow. Allthat remained was his last breath as it bubbled past her to the surface and disappeared. 
He was gone. It was over. She had done what she had always wanted to do, fromthe time she was atinykit:She had saved herClan. 
Shehad saved all theClans. 
Bristlefrost turned and glanced back toward the surface. It looked very far away now. Her struggle with Ashfur had dragged her body down into the very depths of the dark water, and she felt the last of herstrength ebbing out of her fromthe gash in her neck. The surface, the living world, the Clans—they wereout ofherreach. 
Herbody relaxed,and thepain ofherwounds eased.The darkwaterno longerhorrified her; it felt warmand soothing, engulfing herlikean embrace. 
It’s time to rest. 
But she looked up once more at the vanishing surface. Were those faces, peering in? She couldn’t be sure. Violetshine? She thought she saw black-and-white fur moving beyond the water, and a yellow pelt beside it. Rootspring? Her heart ached with love, and she felt a stirring inside her. How could she leave him? She tried to reach out apawand pullherselfup,but therewas nothing to grip but water, and the water would never let her go. Grief pierced her heart, not for herself, but for Rootspring. Her workwas finished, but he had loved her, and now he would have to live without her. I’m sorry. Her mind grew hazy. But we beat him. We destroyed Ashfur. We saved the Clans. 
Thoughts ofRootspring filled hermind.He was pressing beside her beneath a spreading willow, the warmth of him seeping into her fur. Was it a dream or a memory? She couldn’t tell. Now they were hunting, running through the forest, side by side, so close their pelts touched. And then she saw herself cocooned with him in a nest. Had they shared one after all? Surely they had, she thought, with a rush of love. Tails entwined, they were gazing proudly at three tiny kits. Of course it was real. Of course these were memories ofthelifethey must haveshared. 
The cold that gripped her seemed at last to let her go. She closed hereyes and in herlast moment felt only warmth. Only love. 


Chapter 
19 


“No!” A wail tore from Rootspring’s throat. He spun, paws slithering, rage pulsing through himas he tore free fromhis mother’s grasp at theedge ofthedarkwater. 
Violetshine was staring at him. “You can’t save her. You’llonly put yourselfin danger,too.” 
“Ihave to!” Panic pulsed beneath his pelt. As he turned backto thewater,Violetshinegrabbed his scruffbetween her teeth as though hewereakit and hauled himaway. 
Sheflung himbackward.“She’s already gone!” 
He stared at her, his thoughts frozen. She couldn’t be. Bristlefrost couldn’t be dead. It was impossible. He darted back to the water and stared into the reflectionless pool. Violetshine pressed close, her body stiff as though ready to grab himagain ifshehad to. 
The waterwas still.Thesplash had left no ripples,but as he watched,a bubbleopened thesurface foramoment. 
Then it was gone. 
Violetshine was right. Bristlefrost, too, was gone. He couldn’t save her. His heart seemed to open, spilling out pain so unbearable that he could hardly breathe. He could feel Violetshine pressing her muzzle into his neck and feel her breath, warmin his fur, but it meant nothing. It changed nothing.Bristlefrost was dead. 
He was vaguely aware of the battle slowing around him. Dappletuft pulled away from Needletail. The RiverClan tom glanced around the clearing,alarmed,as though mystified at why hewas here. 
“He’s gone!” Stemleaflifted his tailjubilantly. “Ashfuris dead!” 
Violetshine rounded on him, her mew sharp with pain. “So is Bristlefrost!” she wailed. “She pushed him into the darkwaterto stop himkilling Shadowsight,and it swallowed hertoo.” 
Shock showed in Stemleaf’s eyes. It seemed to leap like fire, setting light to the gazes ofwarriorafterwarrioras they faltered and stopped fighting and turned their faces toward the darkwaterwhereBristlefrost had disappeared. 
A gray she-cat struggled free from Firestar’s grip and stared at him, confused. Smokehaze, Rootspring realized sadly. He hadn’t recognized her during the battle. The WindClan warrior had died fighting the false Bramblestar. Now her gaze switched to Houndleap and darkened with fury as ifshe had just realized who hertrueenemy was. 
Rootspring could hardly breathe. 
As Crowfeather dragged his gaze from the water and faced his attacker once more, Thistleclaw shrank into a defensive crouch and began to back away. Mapleshade’s eyes glittered with alarm. She edged toward the long grass, herpelt rippling uneasily. Maggottailand Berrynose padded slowly toward her, their ears flattened menacingly, and she turned and, with a final hiss, fled. Thistleclaw pelted after her. 
Around the clearing, the rogue spirits exchanged glances and moved closer together, eyeing the StarClan warriors warily.Redtail’s ears twitched ominously,Feathertail shook out her fur, and as Onestar’s cold gaze swept over them, one by one, the rogues turned and slunk away, the grass closing behind themlikewater. 
The great oozing pools of dark water began to soak away,disappearing into the earth as thetangleoftrees at the back of the clearing creaked and groaned. The ground beneath themunbuckled and the trees slidbackinto place, their branches unknotting as they settled into old, familiar soil. 
Rootspring stared blankly around the clearing. His mind seemed frozen,as though his thoughts wereencased in ice. 
Violetshine shifted beside him. “It’s over,” she whispered. 
As she spoke,a star-pelted warriorpushed herway from the long grass,panting as though she’d been running. 
“Leafpool!” Firestar hurried to greet her. “Do you have news?” 
“The barrier that separated StarClan’s hunting grounds fromtheDarkForest is gone.” Leafpoollooked around at the StarClan warriors, her eyes sparkling. “StarClan is returning to normal.” She blinked at the spirit cats as they clustered together.“Ourconnection to theliving world is restored.” 
Stemleaf whisked his tail as Conefoot and Dappletuft exchanged glances and Softpelt wovearound them. 
Heavily, Rootspring turned back to the dark pool. There was little left of it now, just a puddle that was soaking quickly into thesoil.Hopeclawed in his belly.Would it leave Bristlefrost behind? He stared desperately at the dwindling water, willing it to reveal the gray pelt he’d loved so much. But it left no trace,only darkened earth whereit had been. 
Please. Rootspring dropped onto his belly and pressed his muzzle to the ground. He would listen to the earth. It would tellhimwhere she was.Ifhe reached deep enough,he could find her. He’d done it before beside the lake. The Sisters had taught himto sense,through the deepest energy of the earth, any cat connected to him. Closing his eyes, he felt forher.The warmth ofherspirit must be somewhere,and he’d find it.Hehad to. 
But the ground betrayed nothing except the coldness of the Dark Forest. Rootspring felt the emptiness like unendurable pain.Bristlefrost hadn’t only lost herlife; she’d lost her chance to live on in StarClan. He would never see heragain. 
She was gone fromhis life, andhis only wish now was that his own spirit would seep into theearth and join her. 


Chapter 
20 


“Our connection to the living world is restored.” 
As Leafpoollifted hertailin triumph,Shadowsight gazed around the clearing. He’d struggled out of the dark dream Ashfur had drawn him into, pushing his way through the grayness that had engulfed his thoughts, and opened his eyes to see …that thebattlewas over? 
He sat up straight,fighting disbelief.But it was true. The rogues were gone, the Dark Forest warriors with them. He should be happy, but something was wrong. He felt an emptiness in his chest, as though his heart had been hollowed out. Firestar’s green eyes were shining. Onestar’s pelt prickled excitedly. Graystripe was pushing himself heavily to his paws. 
Shadowsight tensed.Where’s Bristlefrost? 
Softpelt was weaving around Dappletuft. 
Conefoot was looking eagerly at Leafpool. “Does this mean wecan go to StarClan now?” 
Leafpoolblinked at him.“Yes.” 
Murmurs of relief rippled around the spirit cats, but Rootspring was crouched beside a damp stain on the earth where the dark water had been. Violetshine and Stemleaf were watching him, their faces horror-stricken. Shadowsight felt dread creep beneath his pelt. He tried to catch Rootspring’s eye, but Rootspring’s muzzle was pressed against theground. 
Shadowsight’s mouth grewdry. He no longerhad to ask where Bristlefrost was. He knew by the grief glittering in Violetshine’s eyes, and from the expression on Stemleaf’s face as he stared at the damp earth. There was only one reason they would both look so shattered. The dark water had claimed her. 
Thorns seemed to pierce his heart. Had Ashfur pushed her in? Had he killed her after Shadowsight had refused to? He padded softly to Stemleaf’s side. “What happened?” he whispered. 
“Bristlefrost pushed Ashfur into the water.” Stemleaf looked at him, pity in his eyes. “He was trying to kill you. Shesaved you,but shefellin too.” 
Shadowsight felt dizzy. The ground seemed to shift beneath his paws.Ikilled herafterall. Ashfur’s words rang suddenly in his mind. You’re no help to them. You’re a liability. The dark warrior was right. He shouldn’t be here. He didn’t belong. He turned to look at Rootspring, wishing he could change what had happened—wishing Bristlefrost had let himdie instead. 
“Shadowsight.” 
Shadowsight looked up into a pair of familiar eyes. Spiresight. 
“You saved me,” the small black guardian cat mused. 
“Without you, my spirit would have been trapped in this terrible place.” 
Shadowsight winced. I saved you, but I killed Bristlefrost. “I’mglad foryou,Spiresight,” he said, “and I’m grateful for everything you’ve done for my family. But I don’t feellikea hero right now.” 
Spiresight tilted his head as he stared at the young medicine cat, his gaze suddenly intensifying. “You mustn’t let themclaimyou,” hegrowled. 
Shadowsight backed away. He loved Spiresight, but he didn’t feel up to a confrontation with the strange cat. “I hope you’re happy in StarClan,” he blurted out,then ducked away. 
Further down the hill, he spotted Leafpoolheading back into the long grass. “Let’s go,” she mewed. “We’re done here.You’veallstayed in this terribleplacetoo long.” 
Shadowsight’s gut twisted.Howcould sheleave without Bristlefrost? How could any cat leave? But, one by one, the spirit cats followed,with the rest ofthe patroltrailing behind them. Graystripe seemed to have some trouble getting up, but Firestar helped him, supporting his old friend with his shoulder. Though he left the grass darkened with blood, Graystripewas soon limping across theclearing. 
Numbly, Shadowsight watched Violetshine nudge Rootspring to his paws,murmuring softly to him.Rootspring seemed to have no willofhis own as she steeredhimafter the others. 
Shadowsight wanted to run afterhimand apologize. She died saving me. The thought brought a fresh wave of grief so sharp that it lifted himfor a moment fromhis daze. But it was too soon to talk to Rootspring. He couldn’t push his own pain onto his friend—theyoung SkyClan warriorclearly had enough to carry on his own. 
Maggottail was watching the other cats disappear after Leafpool. “Does she want us to follow?” he asked Sparrowfeather. 
The mottled she-cat shrugged. 
Silverhawk narrowed his eyes. “Probably not. They don’t need us anymore.” 
“We should at least say good-bye to them,” Juniperclaw mewed.“And thankthem.” 
Maggottaileyed him.“Shouldn’t they bethanking us?” 
“They saved the Dark Forest,” Juniperclaw reminded him. 
Maggottailsniffed. “They couldn’t have done it without ourhelp.” 
Juniperclawflicked his tail. “And without their help, the DarkForest would have disappeared and taken you with it.” Heturned to Shadowsight.“Areyou coming?” 
Shadowsight stared back at him blankly for a moment, then shook out his fur, trying to rid himself of the sorrow that seemed to weigh himdown likewater. 
Juniperclaw’s gaze flitted over him. “You should get Willowshineto lookat yourwounds.” 
Shadowsight was faintly aware of the sting from the gash along his flank, and the wound in his leg ached; but the pain in his heart was worse. “Puddleshine willtreat them when I get home.” Home. The ShadowClan camp suddenly seemed faraway and strange,as though it wereadreamhe’d oncehad. 
Juniperclaw let the Dark Forest warriors go first into the long grass before guiding Shadowsight after them with his tail. 
Shadowsight wondered why the blacktomwas being so kind. He saved my life once. Perhaps he still feels responsible for me. A darker thought struck him. He died saving me,just likeBristlefrost. He blinked at Juniperclaw.“I neverhad the chance to thankyou.” If only I could have the chance to thank Bristlefrost too. 
Juniperclawlooked at him.“What for?” 
“For saving me when I was a kit.” He didn’t remember clearly what happened, only that a black tomhad appeared beside himin the swirling flood and pushed himup, out of the water. 
“It was the least I could do to try to make up for what I did to SkyClan,” Juniperclawmewed. 
Shadowsight glanced at him. “You mean,poisoning their fresh-killpile?” 
Juniperclawlooked ashamed.“Yes.” 
“Why did you do it?” 
“I thought it would end an argument between the Clans.” His pelt, black as the starless sky, twitched. “But it was a cowardly thing to do. Not worthy of a warrior, or of ShadowClan.Ibrought shameon my Clanmates.” 
Shadowsight pressed back a shiver. He knew how Juniperclaw felt. He’d been the one to allow Ashfur to take over Bramblestar’s body. He’d insisted he was right, even when the other Clans had objected, but he was just being used by Ashfur and had been too proud and foolish to realize. Because of him, ShadowClan would be remembered forever as the Clan that helped Ashfur return to the living forest. And now he’d caused the death of Bristlefrost, his friend and one of ThunderClan’s bravest warriors. She’d risked everything for the Clans, and now she was gone. He hung his head, hardly seeing where he put his paws, letting Juniperclawlead theway through thegrass. 
As they emerged on the other side, he saw the patrol had reached the bottomof the slope, where dark water had blocked the way. The tree they’d pushed down stillbridged the bottomofthe valley, but there was no water now, only an empty ditch. 
Leafpool hopped across it easily, and the others followed as sheled theminto theforest. 
“Let’s hurry.” Juniperclaw quickened his step, but Shadowsight trailed behind. 
Do I belong with these cats? The hollowness he’d felt when Leafpool had announced that the connection with StarClan had been restored grew sharper. The landscape seemed suddenly empty, like a sky leached of color, or prey drained of life. The great swath of grass seemed gray, the ground beneath his paws cold. The trees at the bottom of the slope were as pale as ghosts. Shadowsight watched as the patroldisappeared among them. The cats he’d grown so close to seemed like strangers, and he realized with a sickening sadness that it was not the Dark Forest that had changed,but himself. 
He was no longerthe samecat who had entered the Dark Forest.What had happened? 
Juniperclawlooked backat him.“Areyou coming?” 
“Idon’t belong with them.” Shadowsight blinked backat him,his heart empty ofeverything but grief. 
“Don’t be mouse-brained.” Juniperclaw beckoned him with aflickofhis tail. 
Shadowsight swallowed against the tightness in his throat.“Ikilled Bristlefrost.” 
Juniperclaw padded toward him. “You can’t blame yourself,” he mewed. “It was a battle. Sometimes warriors die.” 
“They shouldn’t die because of me.” Anger surged in Shadowsight’s chest. “I shouldn’t have been there. I shouldn’t have been any part of this. Bristlefrost would be alive ifshe hadn’t had to save me. Ashfurwould neverhave found a way to the living forest. I’ve done nothing but causetheClans pain.And it got my friend killed.” 
“You risked your life to protect the cats you love,” Juniperclaw mewed sharply. “It was the same decision Bristlefrost made.” 
Shadowsight was barelylistening. “I’man outsider,” he growled, anger at himself swelling. “I always will be. I was supposed to be a great medicine cat,but Iturned out to be a curse on theClans.” 
Juniperclaw’s eyes darkened. “I saved you from the flood because I knew you’d do great things. What was it that Spiresight said about you? That you’d see into the shadows?You’vedonethat,haven’t you?” 
“But seeing into the shadows only brought trouble!” Shadowsight swallowed backa wailofdespair. 
“Trouble would have come no matterwhat,” Juniperclaw told him. “Ashfur would have found another way to harm the Clans. But because you saw into the shadows, they defeated him.” 
Shadowsight’s thoughts tumbled overeach otherso fast they barely made sense. Allhe was sure of was that he had brought darkness to the Clans and that he wasn’t like his Clanmates. “What if I can see into the shadows because I belong in them?” 
Juniperclawstiffened.“What are you talking about?” 
“I can’t go back to the lake,” Shadowsight’s mew cracked.“Ashfurdid something to me.Hechanged me.” 
Juniperclawfrowned.“Changed you?” 
“He found a way to connect with me,” Shadowsight murmured. “A way he couldn’t connect with any other cat. He became …” His mewtrailed away as he looked forwords Juniperclaw could understand. “He became part of me. Or I became part of him. I still am. I must be. I feel like he’s emptied me out. I don’t belong beside the lake anymore. I belong herenow,in thedarkness hecreated.” 
Juniperclaw stared at him. Below them, the last of the patroldisappeared into thetrees. 
Shadowsight shifted his paws miserably. “I can’t go home.” 
Juniperclaw growled. Shock sparked along Shadowsight’s spine as the black tom’s eyes slitted with anger. 
“You fool!” Juniperclaw leaped at him. Bundled backward, Shadowsight hit the ground with a thump, breathless with surprise as the ShadowClan tompinnedhis shoulders to the earth. His muzzle was a whisker away, his eyes burning furiously as heglared down at Shadowsight. 
“What areyou doing?” Shadowsight gasped. 
“You must never think that way,” Juniperclaw growled. “You have to snap out of it. The Dark Forest is getting inside yourhead. This place can turn a good cat bad. Don’t let it. You risked your life to save the Clans. You don’t deserve to stay here. You deserve to be beside the lake with your Clanmates.” He loosened his grip. “You were injured, and you have no battle skills, but you still came. They couldn’t havedefeated Ashfurwithout you.” 
“AllIdid was get in the way.” 
“You reached into the shadows for them,” Juniperclaw snapped. “You dared to go places they couldn’t follow. And even if you have harmed them in some way, you should make up for it. You can’t disappear. You have to go back to the lake and spend every day trying to make up for what you’ve done. You must give them your best.” He gave Shadowsight a small shake, then released himand sat back on his haunches. “I’d give anything to have another chance,” hemuttered.“To provemyselfworthy ofbeing part ofShadowClan. But Ican nevergo home again.” He blinked at Shadowsight. “You can. You have Tigerstar and Dovewing there, and Lightleap and Pouncestep. They’re all waiting foryou.YourwholeClan is waiting foryou.” 
Shadowsight didn’t move.“Do you thinkso?” 
“Yes!” Juniperclaw snapped. “How do you think Dovewing orTigerstarwould feelifyou neverreturned?” 
Shadowsight slowly got to his paws. Juniperclaw was right; they’d be devastated. “But Ifeelso strange. Ithought Ashfur’s death would be a relief.But there’s only emptiness. 
It’s like …ashadowundermy heart.” 
“The Dark Forest does the same to every cat.” Juniperclaw growled. “I struggle against that feeling every day. But once you’ve left, it will fade. And if any trace remains, use it as a warning—a constant reminder that you neverwant to end up here.” 
Shadowsight blinked at him. Guilt tightened his belly. This warrior had suffered despite having saved Shadowsight as a kit, and he was still trying to help him even though he’d never be free of the DarkForest. He felt a waveofgratitude.“Thankyou,” hewhispered. 
Juniperclaw nudged him after the patrol. “Just keep up with theothers.They’llbewaiting foryou.” 
Shadowsight followed himinto the valley and the woods beyond. The trees had spread out again, and even though the woods were gloomy and filled with the dank scents of decay, the mist had vanished. The Dark Forest seemed to havereturned to its own kind ofpeace. 
After a while, he spotted Spiresight lingering beside a rotting tree stump. The guardian cat was clearly waiting for Shadowsight. He felt a pang ofguilt forhowhe’d treated his old friend earlier.“Spiresight,I—” 
But the dark tom simply nodded at him. “The shadows aredispersing.” 
Shadowsight narrowed his eyes. Spiresight would make an excellent StarClan cat: He was already terribly hard to understand. Yet he had an idea what the tommeant. “Ihope so,” he breathed. But still,as they fellinto step together,his heart ached with grief. 
They trailed behind the others, walking deeper and deeper into the woods until, at last, Shadowsight saw the blackened stumps that marked the way to the StarClan barrier. 
He followed Juniperclaw into the clearing, his eyes widening as he saw that the tangled knot of vines and brambles had fallen away completely. Branches littered the ground, and the opening they’d hidden was so bright that Shadowsight had to screw up his eyes. He padded closer and, as his eyes adjusted, stared inside. Ahead, a long tunnelstretched away into shimmering light. 
Maggottail pushed past Sparrowfeather and looked in, his tailflicking uneasily.“Is that StarClan?” 
“Yes.” Silverstreampurred as shegazed toward the light. 
Willowshine sniffed at the edge of the tunnel. “If StarClan and the Dark Forest have always been connected like this,” she wondered, “what stops Dark Forest warriors fromtraveling to StarClan wheneverthey like?” 
“Until Ashfur blocked it, there was a difficult and dangerous path between StarClan and the Dark Forest that only StarClan cats could travel, but this is a new connection.” Leafpool’s tail was twitching nervously. “Ashfur dug this tunnel so he could travel directly from StarClan to the Dark Forest. He was the only cat who knew about it, and by the time we discovered it, he’d blocked it and therewas no way to followhimthrough.” 
Willowshinefrowned.“Should weblockit up again?” 
Leafpool shook her head. “What’s done can’t be undone,” she mewed. “If we block it, we risk unbalancing the DarkForest and StarClan again.” 
Firestar narrowed his eyes. “We can’t leave a direct pathway open between the Dark Forest and StarClan,” he mewed.“What ifanothercat tries to take advantage ofit like Ashfur did? We never should have left the other pathway unguarded.” 
Onestar padded to his side. “We need to find a way to manage it.” His mew echoed along the smooth, bright walls ofthetunnel.“To stop cats fromgetting through.” 
Maggottail sniffed. “Who says we want to get through?” The Dark Forest warriors were lingering at the edge of the clearing, keeping their paws in the shadow where the light of the tunnel hadn’t reached. He exchanged glances with Silverhawk,who dipped his head in agreement. 
“We’ve been here so long, we’re not interested in going to StarClan,” theragged gray tabby mewed. 
Juniperclaw’s ears twitched. “Unless, of course, we’re invited to go.” 
Shadowsight looked at the ShadowClan tom. Was he hoping he’d earned aplacein StarClan? 
Firestarand Onestarexchanged glances. 
Leafpool didn’t seemto have heard. She was looking at Shadowsight. He straightened self-consciously and glanced at Spiresight,wondering what shewas thinking. 
“Howdo you feel?” sheasked him. 
Shadowsight’s heart seemed to skip a beat. Did she know about the hollowness Ashfur had left in his chest? He’d thought Spiresight could sense it because they’d always been connected. But what if it was visible for every cat to see? “What do you mean?” 
“Ashfur made a connection with you, didn’t he?” she mewed. “Like this tunnel reachingfromdarkness into light. You must feelstrangenowthat he’s gone.” 
He swallowed. “I didn’t want to be connected to him,” he mewed quickly.“It just happened.” 
“I know,” Leafpool replied. “Ashfur used you. He reached into yourthoughts and exploited yourgoodness for his own ends.” 
Shadowsight blinked at her. Shame washed his pelt. “Now that he’s gone, it’s almost like I miss him,” he confessed. 
“You don’t miss him,” she told him.“What you’refeeling isn’t loss, only absence. The emptiness will heal, like a wound.” She padded toward himand touched her muzzle to his head. “You’ve been very brave and suffered a lot,” she mewed gently. “But you can rest now. You’ve fulfilled your destiny.It’s over.” 
Shadowsight pulled away and searched her gaze. “Does that mean I’mofno useanymore?” 
She blinked kindly. “Of course not,” she mewed. “Your Clan will always need you. But only as a healer. You will neverhave a connection with StarClan. You neverreally did. Your connection was with shadow, not light. And when Ashfurdisappeared,hetookthat connection with him.” 
Shadowsight felt a pelt brush his own and turned to see Spiresight, wordlessly offering his support. He turned back to stare at Leafpool. Was he supposed to feelrelieved? “But howcan Ibea medicinecat without StarClan?” 
“You can still mix herbs and care for your Clanmates,” she told him. “You’re a good medicine cat, and you’ll become abetterone.” 
He stared at her, his eyes pricking. Had he never been a realmedicine cat? 
Sherested hertailon his spine.“Shadowsight.” Hermew was as gentle as breeze. “Neverlose yourcourage. StarClan willalways be with you. Keep us in your heart even though you can’t share it with us. You have always been different. You’ve known it since you were a kit. It’s your challenge, but it’s also your strength.” He felt the earth beneath his paws,and the cold airofthe DarkForest flowing around his pelt,as she went on. “You’ve seen into the shadows,just as you were meant to.But that part ofyourlifeis overnow.You 
can begin anew.” 
To his surprise, as she lifted her tail from his spine, he felt as though she lifted with it the whole weight of the forest.It was over.Hehad fulfilled his destiny.Nowhemight not have a connection with StarClan, but he was free to make his own path and decide where his paws would lead him. Closing his eyes, he felt the darkness that had clung to his heart forso long dissolveinto nothing.I’m free. 
“The shadows,” Spiresight said again, laying his tail across Shadowsight’s back.“They’regone.” 
Shadowsight turned, pressing his head to the black tom’s chest.“Thankyou,Spiresight.” 
The guardian cat had always belonged in StarClan. Shadowsight hoped both of them would walk in the light now.He,at least,had spent fartoo long in theshadows. 

Chapter 
21 


Rootspring gazed blankly into the bright light flooding from the tunnel to StarClan. The vines and branches that had blocked it lay in aheap on the ground,but hefelt no joy. This was what he had fought for. It was what Bristlefrost had died for. But she would neversee it. She was gone. The victory seemed so hollow, he wanted only to yowl his grief into the shimmering hole. 
Graystripe limped toward it and slitted his eyes against the brightness as he peered inside.“AmIallowed through?” He looked at Firestar. “I know I don’t belong there yet, but thereareso many cats Iwant to see.” 
Firestar padded to his side. “Normally, living cats aren’t allowed in, but …” He glanced at Leafpool, then looked around at the Clan patrol. “I think you have all earned a chanceto see StarClan once.” 
Leafpooldipped her head in agreement and Crowfeather pricked his ears.Mistystar’s tailtwitched. 
Rootspring felt Violetshine shift beside him. She hadn’t left his side since the battle had ended. She looked at him now, her gaze glistening, and he guessed there were StarClan cats she’d like to see too. Hope fluttered in his heart like acreature stirringfromsleep. Was there achance that Bristlefrost would be there? Perhaps she’d been spared from the fate he’d feared. Perhaps the Dark Forest hadn’t claimed herentirely. 
Juniperclawpadded forward. His green eyes were round with hope. 
Firestar seemed to guess what the ShadowClan warrior was thinking. “Dark Forest cats are forbidden from setting pawin StarClan’s hunting grounds.” 
Juniperclaw wilted. “But I was a noble warrior for many moons,” he pressed. “And I honored StarClan as much as any cat.” 
Firestar glanced at Leafpool again. With a nod, they apparently came to a silent agreement. “Very well,” he mewed. “You fought bravely today, so we will make an exception.But you can’t stay there. You willhave to return.” The ThunderClan leader’s mew contained a warning. “The Dark Forest might be harder to bear once you’ve seen StarClan.You’llseewhat you can neverhave.” 
But Juniperclaw was staring eagerly into the tunnel. “I want to see it.” His tailquivered. “Iknowthat Imust stay in the Dark Forest. I have only myself to blame for that. I just want to see StarClan once,so that Ican carry the memory of it with me. It would make staying here easier to bear, not harder.” 
Rootspring glanced at the other Dark Forest warriors. Did they want to visit StarClan too? 
Firestar must have been wondering the same thing. He turned to face them. “You fought bravely forus,” he mewed. “All three of you. Do you wish to see StarClan once before weleave?” 
Maggottail had been watching Juniperclaw through narrowed eyes. “Why get a taste for something you’re not allowed to eat?” hegrunted. 
Sparrowfeather’s eyes clouded wistfully. “It would be worseto seewhat I’mmissing.” 
Silverhawk nodded. “I just want to go back to my life here,” he growled. “I’ve been here so long, it feels like home.” 
Firestar dipped his head. “Thank you for your help,” he mewed. 
Maggottail grunted. “We didn’t have much choice.” He headed toward thetrees. 
Sparrowfeather hurried after him. “Can’t you be civil for once?” shemewed. 
Silverhawk nodded to Firestar. “Thanks for helping us save our home. I’m sorry you lost Bristlefrost. She was brave.” He headed toward the trees, glancing over his shoulder. “I just hope that tunnel doesn’t mean StarClan cats are going to start sticking theirnoses into ourbusiness whenever they like.” With a flick of his tail, he disappeared into the forest afterMaggottailand Sparrowfeather. 
Rootspring watched themgo.It was Bristlefrost who had recruited them. She’d inspired loyalty fromcats condemned fortheirtreachery. 
Graystripe stretched his muzzle into the tunnel, the light illuminating his bloody mane. His eyes were bright. “Can we go now?” 
Leafpool padded past him. “Follow me.” With a flick of her tail, she beckoned the patrol after her and headed into the light. 
Crowfeather slid quickly past Graystripe and fell in beside Leafpool, pressing so close against her that that starlight in herfurseemed to sparkinto his. 
Rootspring hesitated as the patrol headed into the tunnelafterthem. 
“Areyou coming?” Violetshine looked backat him. 
“What ifshe’s not there?” His throat tightened. 
Violetshine blinked at him sympathetically. “You know shecan’t—” 
“Hurry!” Juniperclaw called to them over his shoulder, and Violetshine turned away without finishing hersentence. Rootspring was glad shedidn’t.Hestillwanted to hopefora little longer, no matter how vain his hope was. Forcing his paws to move,hefollowed Violetshine. 
The smooth sides of the tunnel felt like the soft inner casing of bark beneath his paws. The scent of fresh grass funneled from the far end and washed his pelt. He could smellthe musky aroma of prey too, and the air grew warmer with every step. Ahead he saw the patrol disappear into a wall of light, and he slitted his eyes against the glare as he reached it. Hardly seeing, he stepped through the shimmering haze and emerged into a wide, sunny meadow. Pine forest bounded one side of the grassland and oak forest another. Blue sky stretched overhead, and in the distant fields he could see the star-specked pelts ofStarClan warriors. 
Stemleaf and Willowshine were already heading down a grassy slope toward a wide clear pool with the other spirit cats. Their pelts twitched with excitement, and Rootspring thought hesawstarlight begin to glitterin theirfur. 
Firestar purred as Graystripe looked around, his eyes wide with wonder. Silverstream wove around them, as though eager to show Graystripe her territory. Beside them, Juniperclaw stood stiffly, his nose twitching. Onestar and Redtail sat down and gazed across the meadow, clearly relieved to behome. 
Mistystar followed the spirit cats downslope, and Needletailfollowed,beckoning Shadowsight afterher. 
“Come and taste the water,” she called. “It’s sweeter than any wateryou’lltaste besidethelake.” 
As Shadowsight padded after them, Rootspring noticed a gray tabby she-cat bounding up the slope, a sleek brown she-cat beside her. 
“Graystripe!” The gray tabby lifted her tail. “What are you doing here?” 
Rootspring noticed Silverstream stiffen as Graystripe brokeinto apurr. 
“Briarlight is Millie and Graystripe’s daughter,” Needletailwhispered to Rootspring.“She couldn’t walkafter her back was hurt by a falling tree, but in StarClan she can run again.” 
“Millie! Briarlight!” Graystripe started toward the she-cats but faltered,swaying a littleon his paws. 
Milliedarted toward him.“Areyou hurt?” 
Graystripe blinked at her. “A little,” he mewed. “But I’ll be okay.I’mjust visiting beforeIreturn to thelake.” 
“It’s good to see you.” Millie pressed her muzzle deep into his mane.Briarlight purred. 
Silverstream glared at them for a moment, then looked away. She beckoned Feathertail with a jerk of her muzzle. “Weshould leavethemin peace.” 
She sounds hurt. Rootspring narrowed his eyes. 
Feathertail didn’t seemto have heard her mother’s mew. She was watching Crowfeather, her pelt ruffled as though shewas annoyed that hewas standing so closeto Leafpool. 
Was she jealous, too? Rootspring sensed tension crackling in the air. There was clearly more to the relationships between these cats than he knew; he was relieved when Silverstreamnudged Feathertail away. “Come on,” she sniffed.“They’lljoin us soon enough.” 
As the two silver she-cats padded away, Graystripe nuzzled Millie. “Your scent hasn’t changed a bit.” A deep purrrumbled in his throat. 
Millie returned it. “Nor has yours.” Her gaze flitted over him.“Has yourpelt grown thicker?” 
Graystripe purred louder. “Aren’t you going to tell me I’ve gained weight? Every other cat has.” He looked at Briarlight.“I’vemissed you both so much.” 
As Millie nuzzled him again, a speckled white she-cat camespringing overthegrass toward thegroup. 
“Violetshine!” shecalled out as sheneared. 
Violetshine lifted hertail. “Pebbleshine!” She ran to meet the white warrior, then turned to blink excitedly at Rootspring.“This is my mother!” 
The StarClan warrior’s green eyes reminded him of Twigbranch, but the soft line of her shoulders and her long, thick tail looked like Violetshine. He dipped his head. He should be happy to meet her, but his heart was still heavy with grief.Wherewas Bristlefrost? 
Besidehim,Leafpooland Crowfeatherweretalking softly together. He could barely make out the words, but Leafpool’s mew was warmer now than it had been in the Dark Forest, and she was leaning affectionately against the WindClan tom. Had she been waiting for Feathertail to leave? Her mew thickened as she touched her nose to Crowfeather’s ear. “Despite everything, I never stopped missing you.” 
As Crowfeather touched his nose to Leafpool’s muzzle, Rootspring felt a fresh pang of loss. He’d touched Bristlefrost’s muzzlelikethat once. 
Was she here? He scanned the distant meadows, straining to make out her familiar pelt. Was that pale gray pelt hers? Or that one? With each flash of hope and jab of disappointment, panic started to spiral in his chest. There was no sign ofher. Perhaps she was in one ofthe forests,or so faraway he couldn’t make herout. He opened his mouth, letting the airtouch his tongue,tasting forherscent. But he smelled only the unfamiliarscents ofcats he’d neverknown. Hefelt suddenly sickwith loss. 
A pelt brushed his and he jerked his muzzle around, disappointment sweeping him as he saw Firestar gazing at him,his bright green eyes round with sympathy. 
“She’s not here.” The ThunderClan leader’s mew was gentle. “She won’t be. Any cat who dies in the Dark Forest is …” He paused, as though wishing for a better word. “Gone,” hemewed finally. 
Rootspring felt himself sway. Hope drained fromhimas though he’d fallen into the dark water. He closed his eyes, frozen. He never wanted to move from this spot. He never wanted to think or eat or breathe again. The emptiness breaking open his heart felt so vast that he wanted only to fallinto it and losehimselfin its darkness. 
“I’msorry.” Firestarran his tailalong Rootspring’s spine. 
“You and Bristlefrost were so brave throughout this ordeal, braverthan many cats evercould be.” 
Rootspring stared at him blankly, thinking the words should comfort him,but they didn’t.Firestardipped his head and padded toward the others beside the pool. Graystripe and Crowfeather followed with Leafpool and Millie, leaving Rootspring aloneon thehilltop. 
Blind to the rolling meadows and the wide blue sky, Rootspring stood like a rock, his thoughts only on Bristlefrost and the future he’d imagined with her.Since he’d decided to give up his Clan, he’d imagined himself in ThunderClan, patrolling with her, sharing her nest, and perhaps one day visiting her in the nursery and watching theirkits be given theirapprentice names. Howhad he dared to dream so much? The warm breezes of StarClan rippled through his fur, but he barely noticed as he let himself sink into his loss. Only when he felt that his grief had entered every hair on his pelt, and every drop of blood sang with it, did he pull himself back. He couldn’t give up. Bristlefrost would have wanted himto go on—to be the best warrior he could be, to take care of his Clan and one day learn to be happy again. He had to say good-bye to those dreams. Lifting his gaze to the distant forest, he pushed his grief aside. 
Griefcould wait. 
He looked down the slope to where the others were gathered beside the wide blue pool. Blinking away the tears that had welled in his eyes without his realizing, he padded toward them. 
“This is where we go to see ourloved ones in the living world, and to communicate with the medicine cats at the Moonpool,” Leafpoolexplained. 
“That’s fascinating,” Violetshinemewed,leaning closeto take a look. “Does that mean it leads directly to the Moonpool?” 
“Not exactly,” Leafpoolreplied.“Squirrelflight once used it to travel between worlds, but it doesn’t work quite that way.We thinkit draws on ourconnection to ourloved ones, and the connection ofthe three worlds,to showus what we wish to see. Usually. As you know, sometimes the connection between our worlds is …not as clearas it could be.” 
Crowfeather’s whiskers twitched in amusement. “You mean when we need a clearer sign from you than a foggy day orared sunset?” heasked. 
Leafpool shook her head as if she were dismissing his words, but her eyes shone with affection. “Anyway,” she went on,“when Ashfurbuilt his barrierbetween ourhunting grounds and the Dark Forest, our pond became so clogged with branches and vines that we couldn’t see anything. But looknow.” Shegestured to thewaterwith asparkling paw. 
Rootspring couldn’t help peering curiously into the water. 
“It’s perfectly clear,” Graystripe noted, just as Rootspring realized the same. He didn’t see any cat fromthe living world, but the clear blue water seemed to go down forever. 
But when Rootspring looked up at the othercats,he saw that Mistystar didn’t look terribly pleased. She was looking accusingly at a sleek gray StarClan tom who had joined them. “Why did you let Ashfur join StarClan in the first place?” 
“It wasn’t Gray Wing’s fault.” Another tom defended him. This cat’s pelt was lighter, and the starlight sparkling in his furmade himshine like silverbeside the water. “We were allto blame.” 
Gray Wing dipped his head.“Skystar’s right,” hemewed. “Wedecided togetherto giveAshfurachance.” 
Crowfeather scowled angrily. “Why? He wanted to kill his Clanmates!” 
“Wethought he’d atoned forit,” Skystarmewed. 
“‘Atoned,’” Juniperclaw growled. “If that was all a warriorneeded to do to join StarClan,the DarkForest would be empty.” 
Rootspring reached the group but hung back, feeling unsure next to these important cats. Do I have anything to say that’s worthy of the founder of SkyClan? 
Onestar lifted his chin. “Deciding who can join StarClan and who should be in the DarkForest is ahard decision,and we don’t take it lightly. A gathering of StarClan warriors discusses every cat to try to understand what is in their hearts, and to judge whether they should be allowed to join us.” 
“Sometimes wearewrong,” Firestarmewed with asigh. 
Rootspring nodded thoughtfully,remembering Snowtuft. Despite feeling intimidated, he had to speak up for his Dark Forest ally. No other cat would. “Is it possible to change yourdecision onceit’s been made?” 
Skystarlooked puzzled.“Why would we?” 
“A Dark Forest warrior saved my life,” Rootspring told him. “He saved it twice and sacrificed his whole existence to let me and Bristlefrost escape fromAshfur. Surely a cat like himdeserves aplacein StarClan?” 
Onestarsniffed.“Ifhe’s gone,it’s irrelevant.” 
Juniperclaw narrowed his eyes. “But what if other Dark Forest cats change like Snowtuft did? Is there really no way to earn aplace in StarClan even afterdeath?” 
Gray Wing looked thoughtful. “We are all judged on what we did in ourlifetime.It’s no use being sorry afterward. It’s more important not to break the warrior code in the first place.” 
Rootspring thought this was too harsh. “Surely every warrior has done something wrong.” He looked around the others. “Is there any cat here who can say for sure they’ve neverbroken thewarriorcode?” 
The cats exchanged glances. 
“Ashfurdefinitely broke it,” Graystripegrowled. 
Firestar shifted his paws. “No system is perfect,” he mewed.“Wejust try to be as fairas we can be.” 
Onestar nodded. “We try to consider not so much whether they broke the warrior code,” he mewed, “but why. And we try to decide if, despite everything, their hearts are stilltrue.” 
“I had to persuade StarClan to accept me,” Leafpool mewed. “Istood in front ofsome ofthe greatest warriors the Clans haveeverknown and convinced themthat,despitemy codebreaking,Iwas worthy ofbeing a StarClan warrior.” Her pelt prickled along her spine as though the memory of her trial still made her uneasy. “They accepted me.” She looked at Mistystar, whose eyes were narrowed doubtfully. “If breaking the warrior code stopped every cat from joining StarClan, the Dark Forest would be overflowing, and these meadows”—she paused to sweep her gaze over the rolling landscape—“would beempty.” 
Crowfeather nodded. “There’s more to allof us than the rules we’ve obeyed and the rules we’ve broken,” he mewed. “And we change as we grow older. Rules we broke as apprentices seemmore important when we become warriors, and rules we’d never dare break as apprentices come to seemmoreflexible.” 
Firestar winked teasingly at Crowfeather. “Like crossing borders,forexample.” 
As Crowfeatherfluffed out his fur,Violetshine spoke,her mew soft as though she was shy in front of so many StarClan warriors. “Perhaps some of StarClan’s rules aren’t as important as they used to be.” She looked at herpaws as their gazes swung toward her. “I just mean that, after the trouble with Ashfur, perhaps it would a good idea to think about which parts ofthe warriorcode are most important.So that wedon’t makethesamemistakes again.” 
Skystarand Gray Wing exchanged glances. 
“We can’t just pick and choose which bits of the code we like.” Gray Wing spoke sharply. “What kind of warriors would webe?” 
Skystar nodded. “The Clans would start to question every ruleifwechanged one.” 
“I just thought …” Violetshine’s mew trailed away and sheseemed to shrinkbeneath herpelt. 
Rootspring moved closer to her. “The warrior code didn’t protect theClans fromAshfur,” he reminded them.His paws pricked uncomfortably. He was arguing with StarClan cats. But he had to defend his mother. “He used it to harm us.” 
Leafpooltipped her head to one side. “That’s true.” She turned her gaze toward Gray Wing and Skystar. “Of course all the rules are important, but aren’t some of them more gestures of respect, like thanking StarClan for prey? Others —like being loyal and defending kits and elders—are vital forthesafety and well-being ofthe Clan.” 
The well-being of the Clan, Rootspring mused. Hadn’t Bristlefrost died for that? She hadn’t risked her life because she wanted to follow the warrior code. She’d risked it because she had valued the safety of the cats she loved above her own. “The warrior code isn’t about rules.” He found himself speaking again. “It’s about not being selfish. Bristlefrost sacrificed herlife—and herplace in StarClan—to save the Clans.” His heart was pounding. The StarClan warriors were staring at him. “Some cats get lost in meaningless battles for power, and some are willing to hurt other cats just to get something for themselves. Bristlefrost was neverlikethat.Alot ofwarriors areneverlikethat.They believe they should defend their Clan, even with their lives. But Bristlefrost didn’t just give herlife forThunderClan; she gave it for SkyClan, ShadowClan, WindClan, and RiverClan too. She understood that following the warrior code meant taking careofevery cat,not just herown Clanmates.” 
Graystripe nodded. “If there’s one thing we ought to learn fromAshfur,it’s that if…” He seemed to need to catch his breath before he went on. “If we want to survive, we must protect not just our own Clans, but every Clan. And the warriorcodeshould reflect that.” 
Firestarmoved closer to his friend. “Iagree,” he mewed. 
“I’ve seen how, over the moons, the Clans have learned to support each other,so that it’s unthinkable nowfora warrior to attack another Clan’s fresh-kill pile.” He glanced at Juniperclaw. The black tom’s fur prickled uncomfortably along his spine as Firestar went on. “And it’s become clear that aClan strengthened by deceit ordishonesty,orone that takes unfair advantage of a weaker Clan, isn’t truly strong. The strong fight fairly.Only theweakcheat.” 
Crowfeather was frowning. “That all sounds very impressive, but does it mean we should think about changing some ofourrules ornot?” 
“Of course.” Graystripe lifted his muzzle stiffly. “Things have changed since the times we fought petty battles over borders and prey. We should decide what it means to be a warriornow,not what it meant countless moons ago.” 
“The code is like a living thing,” Leafpool chimed. “It changes and grows as it needs to.” She looked thoughtful. “But perhaps we don’t need to change it.” She glanced at Skystar. “Perhaps we could just reorderthe rules so that the most important ones comefirst.” 
“Defending all the Clans should be first,” Graystripe mewed. 
Firestar nodded. “But each Clan still has the right to be proud and independent….” 
Needletail cut in, quoting another rule. “And an honorable warrior does not need to kill other cats to win theirbattles,unless they are outside the warriorcode orit is 
necessary forself-defense.” 
Eagermurmurs rippled around thegathered cats. 
“Elders, queens, and kits must be fed first,” Silverstream offered. 
Onestarwhisked his tail. “AGathering ofallfive Clans is held at thefullmoon underatruce that lasts forthenight.” 
“No warrior can neglect a kit in pain or danger, even if the kit is froma different Clan,” Redtailmewed. 
One by one, the cats listed the rules ofthe warriorcode, ordering them and reordering them until every cat seemed satisfied. 
Only Skystar looked unconvinced. “So the rule on boundaries comes last now?” 
Gray Wing looked at the SkyClan leader. “Perhaps it should havecomelast allalong.” 
Skystarstiffened, as though ready to argue,then looked away.“Perhaps you’reright,” hemumbled. 
Shadowsight lifted his muzzle tentatively. “No cat has mentioned whetherthe rules ourleaders make havethe same poweras thewarriorcode.” 
“Surely they must,” Mistystar mewed. “How can they lead iftheirClan doesn’t taketheirrules seriously?” 
“Following our leaders’ rules hasn’t worked these past moons,” Stemleaf reminded her. “Look how Ashfur used rules to turn us against each other.” 
Shadowsight nodded.“The rules a leadermakes are only as good as theleaderwho makes them.” 
“Abad leadermakes bad rules,” Leafpoolagreed. 
“Perhaps there should be a way to challenge a leader,” Firestar mewed. “If they lose the trust of their Clan.” His gaze flicked around the living cats, settling finally on Mistystar. “Perhaps the Clans should think about it. Would three moons be enough time to come up with a plan for getting rid ofa leaderwho isn’t serving the best interests of theirClan?” 
Mistystar nodded. “Okay,” she mewed. “We’ll start discussing it at thenext Gathering.” 
“Surely that should be something for StarClan to decide,” Skystar muttered under his breath. But no cat responded.Instead,Crowfeathercleared his throat. 
“There’s still no clear rule about relationships between cats fromdifferent Clans,” hemewed. 
Rootspring pricked his ears. That was something he’d thought alot about overthe past fewmoons. 
“We don’t need a rule,” Mistystar mewed. “A warrior who has a relationship with a cat from another Clan is disloyal.It’s as simpleas that.” 
Rootspring looked at her.Simple? Didn’t she realize how complexa cat’s heart couldbe? “Do you thinkI’mdisloyal afterI’vefought so hard to savetheClans?” heasked. 
Violetshinebristled.“Ofcourse not!No onedoes!” 
Murmurs ofagreement spread among theothers. 
“And yet I loved Bristlefrost.” Rootspring’s throat tightened, his voice growing husky as he went on. “I tried not to love her. I knew I’d be betraying my Clan. I tried reasoning with myself, but it was impossible. When we got home, I was going to join ThunderClan to be with her.” Violetshine jerked hermuzzle toward him,hereyes rounding, but he went on. “No warrior, no matter how brave and loyal they are,is strong enough to fight love.” 
“What cat can control his own heart?” Graystripe agreed. 
Mistystar looked at Rootspring, her eyes glistening. “I knowhowmuch it hurts to lose a cat you love,” she mewed softly. “And I would never accuse you of disloyalty. But if weallowcats fromdifferent Clans to becomemates and have kits,it’llundermineevery Clan.” 
“Not if they make a choice and stick to it,” Rootspring mewed. 
Stemleaf fluffed out his fur. “I think a warrior who chooses loveoverhis Clan is braverthan most cats.” 
Leafpool dipped her head. “Perhaps this is something else the Clans should think about over the coming moons.” She looked at Mistystar. “Do you think, between you, the Clan leaders can come up with a way to allowcats to switch Clans?” 
Mistystar’s gaze narrowed. “We can try,” she mewed doubtfully. 
“In three moons,” Firestar mewed, “tell us your decision.” He looked up the slope toward the tunnel entrance.“Fornow,it’s timeyou went home.” 
Rootspring shivered at the thought of returning to the Dark Forest. But it was the only way back to the lake. He dipped his head to Willowshine. “Thanks foryourhelp.” He looked at Stemleafand Berrynose gratefully. They might not havewon thebattlewithout theirhelp. 
Stemleaf blinked back at him. “I wish Bristlefrost had made it.” He held Rootspring’s gaze, and Rootspring felt strangely comforted. Bristlefrost would be remembered, at least. 
He noticed Shadowsight glancing at him but couldn’t bring himself to return his gaze. If only Bristlefrost hadn’t seen that the medicine cat was in trouble. He pushed the thought away. He was being selfish. Pressing back grief, he followed the others up the slope, keeping close to Graystripe,who was stilllimping. 
At the top, Skystar nosed his way through the group and stared into the tunnel, wrinkling his nose. “I can smell evil,” hegrowled. 
Gray Wing slid in beside him. “How will we stop Dark Forest warriors fromusing this?” 
“Some cat should guard it,” Skystarmewed. “Acat both sides can trust.Guarding it would becometheirentire life.” 
Juniperclaw’s ears pricked.“Ican do it.” 
“Really?” Firestar eyed himthoughtfully. “It’ll be lonely work. You won’t belong either in StarClan or the Dark Forest.” 
“I’d be honored,” Juniperclawmewed. “At least I’llhave some connection with StarClan. And I want to keep you safe.” 
Mistystar stared solemnly at him. “You can’t let any cat pass fromoneworld to the other.” 
Juniperclaw dipped his head low. “I promise.” As he looked up,his eyes shone happily. “Iwilldo my best. Iwant to showStarClan that Itruly amsorry forwhat Idid.” 
As he spoke, Graystripe lurched suddenly. Firestar’s gaze flashed toward the ground beneath the old tom’s paws. Rootspring followed it.The grass was glistening with blood. 
“Shadowsight!” Firestar mewed in alarm. “Graystripe needs help!” 
Graystripe sat down heavily, and Shadowsight darted to his side,sniffing first at his flank,where a gash showed,and then at his belly. He drew back sharply. “Are there any cobwebs here?” heasked Firestar. 
“No cobwebs,” Firestartold him.“But there’s moss.” 
Silverstream was already racing to the pool, where she began tugging great clumps fromtheedge. 
Firestarstared in dismay at the long open wound gaping on Graystripe’s belly. “I didn’t realize you were so badly hurt.” 
“I didn’t want to worry you.” Graystripe was breathing heavily. 
Silverstream was already racing back up the hill. She scrambled to a halt and dropped the moss she was holding between herjaws. 
Shadowsight scooped it up and began to pack Graystripe’s wound. The old tom’s eyes glittered with pain. “It should hold untilhe gets home,” he mewed,leaning back to lookat his work. 
“Jayfeather will have enough herbs to heal him, won’t he?” Mistystarmewed hopefully. 
Shadowsight met hergazebut didn’t answer. 
Millie hurried to his side. “Oh, Graystripe.” Her eyes darkened with pity. 
“It’s okay,” Graystripe soothed.“I’ve lived along life.” 
Sheblinked at him.“Willyou stay here with us?” 
“I need to go home first,” Graystripe murmured. “My body is there, like many of these brave cats’. I’m sure my friends are wondering about my injuries. I need to reassure themthat I’llbeallright …and say good-bye.” 
Mistystar’s eyes clouded. She stared at Graystripe. “We can’t loseyou.TheClans won’t be the same.” 
“I’m sure they’ll manage.” Graystripe forced a purr, wincing as he spoke. 
Firestar touched his nose to Graystripe’s ear. “You’re welcomein StarClan,” hemurmured.“Wheneveryou arrive.” 
“No!” Rootspring pressed back a shiver. The ThunderClan tomcouldn’t die. They’d lost so much already. “Aftereverything he’s done,hedoesn’t deserveto die.” 
“I’ve had a good life,” Graystripe told him. “I’ve had great friends and loyal Clanmates. I’ve loved and been loved.” He glanced affectionately at Millie and Silverstream. “And I’ve had kits that I’m proud of.” He looked at Feathertailand Briarlight. “A warrior can’t askformore than that. I’m just grateful I had one last chance to protect the Clans.” 
Firestar’s green eyes glistened with emotion. “You were the first warrior I ever saw,” he mewed. “I hope you will be the last. You’ll be remembered by the Clans for moons to come. And though they’llbe losing you,Iwon’t be sorry to hunt beside you again. You were, and always will be, my best friend.” 
Graystripe’s whiskers twitched. With a husky purr, he nudged Firestar’s muzzle away. “You always did talk like a soppy old kittypet.” 


Chapter 
22 


Shadowsight pushed hard, shoving Graystripe through the starlit water of the Moonpool while, above him, Rootspring and Mistystar dragged the ThunderClan elder up to the surface. Shadowsight broke through a moment after them. There was a moment of confusion as every cat besides Rootspring located their sleeping form on the edge of the Moonpool and prepared to reunite with it. Shadowsight thought he noticed Graystripe hesitating—no doubt alarmed by the reality ofhis injuries. Shadowsight moved toward his own body. He closed his eyes and felt a warmth coursing through him, followed by a jaw-clenching pain. He opened his eyes to find himself looking out from his body once more. His injuries ached far more here than they had in the spirit world, but Shadowsight stifled a moan, knowing that Graystripe must have it so much worse. When his vision focused, he saw that Rootspring looked stricken and followed his gazeto whereBristlefrost had lain. 
Shewas gone. 
Not dead.Not injured.Just …gone. 
Their kin had come to meet them, looking eager and confused. Tree and Needleclaw were there, and Breezepelt, pacing nervously beside Mothwing. They probably hadn’t gone far fromthe Moonpool hollow since the patrol left for the Dark Forest. Lightleap was there too, and Tigerstar and Dovewing had joined her. Shadowsight felt a surge of happiness as he saw them. It seemed a lifetime since he’d been home. But his happiness fizzled away as he noticed Ivypool staring at him, eyes narrowed. “Where is she? Wherehas shegone?” 
Shadowsight moved his mouth to answer,but he had no idea how to begin. His vision bleary from the swim, he watched Bramblestarand Squirrelflight rush fromthe backof the crowd overto Graystripe. 
“Is he dead?” Bramblestar glanced quickly at Mistystar before grabbing Graystripe’s scruff between his teeth. Shadowsight knewthat he was asking not about Graystripe, who groaned weakly as Bramblestar pulled him onto the stone,but about Ashfur. 
“Yes.” Mistystarfellback,exhausted afterthe long climb out oftheDarkForest.“Wewon thebattle.” 
Bramblestarlaid theeldergently on thestoneand looked at Rootspring.“Did weloseany cat?” 
“Did we lose Bristlefrost?” Ivypool was staring at Rootspring now,hergazeintense,but herjawtrembled.“She was sleeping there, and I took my eyes away for a moment. When Ilooked back,shehad just …disappeared.” 
“I’veneverseen anything likeit,” Mothwing added. 
Rootspring stared at Bristlefrost’s mother, shock and pain in his eyes, as though the ThunderClan warrior had turned on himand raked claws across his muzzle. 
“Yes.” Mistystar answered for him, lowering her mew to a whisper that Shadowsight could hardly hear. But he knew what she would say next. “Bristlefrost died a hero.” The RiverClan leader’s gaze flitted toward Ivypool, whose face seemed to crumple. “She pushed Ashfur into the darkwater and fellin with him.” 
As Bramblestar froze, his eyes darkening with anguish, Squirrelflight touched Graystripe’s bloody, wet pelt with her nose. “And what of Graystripe? Who did this to him?” she asked. 
“Ashfur.” Mistystarwas stillwatching Ivypool. 
Mothwing darted forward and began to examine the wound on Graystripe’s belly. Some cat had packed it with moss, probably when it had first appeared, but that had come loose when Graystripe’s spirit had reunited with his body and he’d stirred. The wound was pouring blood, just as it had in theDarkForest. 
“Look for cobwebs!” Mothwing called to the Sisters, who werehanging backon therock. 
Flurry nodded and quickly led Snow,Furze,and Tempest toward the shadowy cliffs. Shadowsight watched them go, his heart pounding. Would cobwebs be enough to save the ThunderClan elder? 
“Shadowsight!” Dovewing called from the edge of the Moonpool.“You’resafe!” 
At his mother’s mew,he walked away fromthe othercats who’d battled in the DarkForest with himand shookout his fur. For a moment, among all this loss, it was a relief to be fussed overby his mother. 
Dovewing nosed around him, undaunted by the spray, and sniffed him like a newborn kit. “Is this a new injury?” Sheblinked at thegash on his flank. 
“Yeah,but it’s fine,” hereassured her,trying to pretend it didn’t hurt. 
Tigerstar nosed past Dovewing and pressed his muzzle to Shadowsight’s head.“It’s good to haveyou back.” 
Lightleap blinked at him. “Thank StarClan you made it.” She sounded relieved, but there was a quietness in her mew that made him wonder if she would ever feel entirely easy about himtaking herplacein thepatrol.“Areyou hurt?” 
“Of course he’s hurt,” Dovewing fretted. “Look at him.” The waterpooling darkly at his paws smelled ofblood. 
“I’llrecover,” Shadowsight promised.He glanced toward Graystripe, fearing the same would not be true of the ThunderClan tom. 
Breezepelt hurried to his fatheras he rose and got to his paws.“Are you hurt?” 
Crowfeather nudged him away and shook out his pelt. “Just a fewscratches,” he mewed. 
After some time, Ivypool broke her silence. “We don’t even have herbody to bury,” she mewed softly, staring into the Moonpool. 
Tree and Needleclaw were winding happily around Violetshine, but Rootspring drew away, his gaze fixing on Ivypool. Shadowsight sawgrief glisten in his blue eyes and watched, barely aware of Tigerstar and Dovewing, as the SkyClan tompadded toward Ivypool. 
“I’m so sorry,” he told her softly from the edge of the pool.“Shegave herown life to killAshfur.” 
Ivypoolstood like a stone by the water,hergaze fixed on Rootspring, though Shadowsight guessed she wasn’t focusing on anything but thepain slicing through herheart. 
Rootspring padded slowly into the pooland nudged her toward the shore. “If I could have taken her place, I would have. But she died as she lived:bravely,willing to give it all for her Clan,” he told her, his own eyes shimmering with grief. 
Ivypool blinked at him, then looked back at the Moonpool as though Rootspring might be wrong and Bristlefrost would appear spluttering above the surface at any moment.“It can’t betrue.” 
“If there were any chance she was still alive, I wouldn’t have come back.” Rootspring’s mew was hollow with grief. “Iwould neverhaveleft without her.” 
Shadowsight’s throat tightened. He knew that, eventually, he’d have to go to Ivypool and explain that Bristlefrost had given up her life for his. If there was any way he could honorhersacrifice,he would. But not now. He pulled away fromTigerstarand Dovewing.Therewasn’t time forgrief.“Ihaveto help Mothwing.” 
Graystripe was lying on his side, his eyes closed, his flanks barely moving. Shadowsight could see that he was in pain. The Sisters were hurrying fromthe shadows, cobwebs in theirjaws and wrapped around theirforepaws. 
As Flurry reached Mothwing and peeled off a clump for her to use, Shadowsight joined them. “Can you stop the bleeding?” heasked. 
“Idon’t know.” Mothwing was already wadding cobweb into the wound that sliced Graystripe’s belly open. Her eyes were darkand herpaws drenched in thetom’s blood. 
Shadowsight scooped up another clump and trailed it over the gash, but it was like trying to block a river with leaves. He grabbed another pawful and pressed it into the gap. 
Graystripegrunted,his eyes flickering open. 
Squirrelflight crouched beside him. “We’ll get you through this,” shepromised. 
Graystripe blinked slowly. “I don’t think so.” There was no fear in his mew, or regret. “I’m going to StarClan.” His eyes were clouded. “It isn’t sad. I’ve lost so many cats I loved,and nowIcan bewith themagain.” 
Squirrelflight’s whiskers quivered as she fought back grief. 
Bramblestar leaned down and touched his nose to Graystripe’s ear. “ThunderClan has been lucky to have you forso long,” hemurmured. 
Graystripe gave a soft grunt as though trying to purr. “I’ve been lucky to have them. Tell them that I wouldn’t want to have belonged to any other Clan and that I’ll miss them. Say goodbye to my kits for me, and tell them I’ll be waiting for them in StarClan after they have long, happy lives.” He turned his head stiffly and looked at Squirrelflight. “I gave Ashfur your message,” he rasped. “He carried it to his death.” 
“Ashfur’s gone forever,” Shadowsight added. He wanted to make sure Squirrelflight knew that she’d never have to deal with the dark warrior again. “Bristlefrost made sure ofthat. And we broke down the barrierto StarClan. We can contact themagain.” Atwinge ofregret jabbed his heart. We. The word sounded hollow. He’d never contact StarClan now. He’d lost any connection he’d had with them. Ashfur had destroyed it. He glanced at Mothwing. “The medicine cats should meet heretomorrowand sharewith them.” 
“Okay.” She nodded but didn’t take her eyes off her work. 
Graystripe pawed at her weakly, pushing her away. “It’s no good,” hemurmured.“Let mego.” 
Mothwing didn’t fight him. She leaned back as he laid his head down and closed his eyes. 
Shadowsight’s heart seemed to drop like a stone in his chest. His paws were stillon Graystripe’s belly when he felt asudden stillness he’d only everfelt in prey. 
Mothwing sat back on her haunches, then put a paw to Graystripe’s chest.Amoment later,she nodded gently.“He’s gone.” 
Silently, slowly, Bramblestar crouched beside Graystripe’s body, then let out a long, low yowl. As it echoed around the hollow, Squirrelflight joined him until every stonerang with theirgrief. 

Chapter 
23 


The next night, as he crouched beside the Moonpool, Shadowsight felt a hollowness inside him like hunger. The wound Ashfur had opened had not healed as Leafpool had promised.But perhaps hejust needed to wait alittle longer. 
The other medicine cats were here—all of thembeneath the bright white moon—but, after Graystripe’s death, there seemed to be a chill in the Moonpool hollow that neither warmpelts norclouding breath could chaseaway. 
The Clan cats had carried the message home to their Clans that Ashfur had been defeated and the connection to StarClan restored. They had arranged for the medicine cats to meet here. They’d told themthat they’d be able to share with StarClan again. Shadowsight knew that they’d been longing for this moment for moons, and that they’d be delighted and relieved to be here. They would be comforted tonight, but Shadowsight wondered whether his own emptiness could everbe healed ifhe would neverbe able to share with his ancestors. 
He crouched guiltily at the water’s edge. Should he tell the other medicine cats what Leafpool had told him? That he’d never have the same connection with StarClan that they had? Would they stop him from coming here? He fluffed out his fur against the night’s chill. Mothwing came to the Moonpool meetings even though she didn’t share with StarClan.Why couldn’t he? 
Shadowsight glanced at Mothwing as Puddleshine chatted eagerly with theothermedicinecats. 
“Tigerstar has ordered extra hunting patrols so that we can celebratewith afeast,” hemewed. 
“Harestar too,” Kestrelflight told him. “If StarClan approves, we’ll celebrate Whistlepaw becoming my medicine-cat apprentice—but there are already so many reasons to celebrate.” 
Shadowsight’s former mentor had patched up his wounds, treating them with so many herbs they felt numb now. The absence of pain was one relief, at least. If only Puddleshine had some cure for the loss of Bristlefrost and Graystripe,and ofStarClan. 
Puddleshine blinked at Mothwing. “You’ll be traveling backto theRiverClan camp aftertheceremony,then?” 
She nodded. “It’s time I went back. RiverClan needs a medicine cat, and Mistystar has finally apologized for banishing Icewing and Harelight forso long.” 
Kestrelflight rubbed a paw over his muzzle. “Are they going backwith you?” 
“They’realready there,” Mothwing told him. 
“The ShadowClan camp seems empty without them,” Puddleshine mewed. “Although Yarrowleaf’s complaining that we’ll never get the smell of fish out of the warriors’ den.” 
Jayfeather sniffed. “If Yarrowleaf’s complaining, it sounds like lifeis getting backto normal.” 
Puddleshinepurred.“About timetoo.” 
Alderheart’s eyes shimmered anxiously. “Do you really thinkwe’llbeableto share with StarClan tonight?” 
“There’s only one way to find out.” Jayfeather padded to theedgeofthewaterand crouched besideit. 
Alderheart settled next to himand Puddleshine lay down beside Shadowsight as the other cats took their places around the Moonpool. Only Mothwing hung back, her gaze flitting distractedly around the moon-shadowed cliffs. 
Should I be sitting beside her rather than here? Shadowsight glanced at Puddleshine, feeling shame wash his pelt. He should have told his former mentor, at least, what Leafpoolhad told him. That he would never be able to share with StarClan. But the words had stuck in his throat. ShadowClan had been so pleased that he was backand that Ashfur had been defeated, he hadn’t wanted to spoil their happiness with bad news. 
Jayfeather closed his blind blue eyes and touched his nose to the water. As Puddleshine joined him, Shadowsight quickly dipped his muzzle to the chilly surface of the pool. Perhaps StarClan would sharewith himafterall.It wasn’t fair that he’d never get to speak to them. Even if he’d fulfilled his destiny and seen into the shadows,couldn’t he have the chanceto say good-bye? 
Behind his closed eyes, he saw nothing but darkness and heard nothing but his own thoughts. He tried harder, reaching as far as he could, as though he was trying to remember where he’d seen a fresh clump of chervil growing in the woods. But nothing came. His thoughts remained empty. 
He sat up, his heart aching. Mothwing looked at him, puzzled, but said nothing and began to wash her belly. She seemed content without sharing with StarClan. Perhaps he was asking too much.. He’d actually walked in StarClan territory and seen the forests and meadows and StarClan warriors. He’d spoken with Firestar. Could any medicine cat want morethan that? 
As thecold airbegan to reach through his pelt,the other medicine cats began to move. Alderheart’s tail quivered as he blinked open his eyes.Jayfeathersat up,his pelt rippling, and Kestrelflight stretched. 
Puddleshine got to his paws and looked at Shadowsight. “What did you see?” 
Shadowsight froze.What should hesay? 
Reliefflooded himas Alderheart answered first. 
“I saw Graystripe.” The ThunderClan medicine cat looked at Jayfeather. “He’s glad to be with his old Clanmates. And he says he’s enjoying catching up with Briarlight and Millie.” 
“Good.” Jayfeatherpurred.“He’s earned his rest.” 
Kestrelflight’s eyes were shining. “StarClan told me that Whistlepaw will be a fine medicine cat. And that we must learn fromwhat happened with Ashfur.” 
“Me too.” Puddleshine whiskers twitched. “They said we should thinkabout the changes to the warrior code, and take it seriously. They hope everything that’s happened will bring the Clans closer together and help us rebuild and become stronger.” He looked eagerly at Shadowsight. “Did they tellyou that too?” 
Shadowsight’s pelt seemed to burn as the medicine cats looked at himexpectantly. He droppedhis gaze, wishinghe could disappear. 
Mothwing padded closer. “Shadowsight’s been through alot,” shemewed.“Perhaps he’s too tired forvisions.” 
“Really?” Puddleshinesounded surprised. 
Shadowsight’s heart was beating so loudly he could hear nothing else. He forced himself to meet Puddleshine’s gaze.“Isawonly blackness,” heconfessed. 
Puddleshine frowned. “I guess Mothwing’s right,” he mewed.“You must betired.” 
“No.” Shadowsight shook his head. “It’s not that.” He curled his claws against the stone. “It’s because I don’t haveaconnection with StarClan.” 
Jayfeatherpricked his ears.Kestrelflight frowned. 
“What do you mean?” Puddleshine sounded confused. 
“You helped destroy the barrier. Of course you have a connection with them.” 
Shadowsight swallowed as he remembered Leafpool’s words. Your connection was with shadow, not light. “Leafpooltold me that I’ve neverreally shared with StarClan at all,” he admitted. “I just thought I could share with them. My destiny was to see only into the shadows. My visions all belonged to Ashfur, and when he disappeared, my visions went too.” He shrankbeneathhis pelt. “I’msorry,” he mewed, too ashamed to look at the other medicine cats. “I’mnot a realmedicine cat at all.Ashfurjust used me to get backto the Clans.It’s my fault he caused so much trouble.It was mewho let himin.I’mso sorry.” 
Puddleshine hesitated, his eyes darkening for a moment before he fluffed out his fur and mewed brightly, “What do you mean you’re not a realmedicine cat? You’re a perfectly fine medicine cat. In a few moons you’ll almost be as good as me.” 
Shadowsight looked up.Surpriseflashed through his fur. Puddleshinewas purring. 
Mothwing swished her tail. “There’s more to being a medicine cat than sharing with a bunch of dead warriors,” shemewed. 
He blinked at her. “But you were so angry with me for bringing Ashfurback.” 
Mothwing sniffed. “I had to be angry with some cat,” she mewed. “I’msorry Iwas so hard on you. I was grieving for my place in RiverClan and needed some cat to blame. And Isuppose,in some way,you represented my worst fear —that living cats would go against their own instincts to follow the dangerous instructions of some long-dead cat. But Ashfurcould have used any cat. It wasn’t yourfault he chose you, and I shouldn’t have acted like it was. If he’d chosen me, Imight have been fooled too. But Idon’t thinkI would have been brave enough to follow himinto the Dark Forest.” She glanced at the wounds in Shadowsight’s pelt, where his fur was stillmatted with dried blood. “Even when you were injured, you went back there to help defeat him onceand forall.Howcould any cat beangry with you?” 
Shadowsight’s heart lifted, and he glanced hopefully at the othermedicinecats.Did they feelthesameway? 
Jayfeather tutted. “I don’t know why you’re making such a fuss,” he told Shadowsight. “Mothwing gets along fine without sharing with StarClan.” He turned his blind gaze on Mothwing, with just a touch of apology in his expression.I suppose he’s sorry for revealing her secret to a whole Gathering, Shadowsight mused as the ThunderClan cat went on. “As for Ashfur, what’s done is done. Perhaps you were a mouse-brain, but you were young. You still are! I’msure you’ll make plenty more mistakes. But your heart’s in the right place, and you’ve more than made up for whateverharmyou did.” 
Kestrelflight nodded. “If we’ve ever made you feel like you didn’t deserve to be a medicine cat,we’re sorry. Thanks to you, StarClan has returned and the Clans are safe. If that doesn’t makeyou amedicine cat,nothing will.” 
Alderheart flicked his tail. “You’re one ofus and nothing willchangethat.” 
Shadowsight looked around at his fellow medicine cats. They were gazing at him with a respect he’d never seen in theireyes before.Theemptiness in his heart seemed to fillas joy flooded it. He felt suddenly sure that the darkness Ashfurhad pulled himinto had dispersed forever. 
For the first time, he didn’t feel like an outsider. He was accepted at last. 


Chapter 
24 


“Bramblestar! Bramblestar!” 
Rootspring gazed up at the Great Oak while the Clans lifted theirvoices togetherto chant the name ofthe returned leader. On the long, low branch, Bramblestar shifted his paws self-consciously, but his eyes were shining. He was clearly pleased to be back. The island clearing, warmunder the biggest full moon of greenleaf, seemed to fizz with happiness. Despite theirlosses,the Clans were relieved that orderhad been restored,along with theirconnection to their ancestors. But Rootspring couldn’t share their joy. In the half-moon since he’d returned from the Dark Forest, grief had weighted every pawstep and dragged at every breath.It had soured the flavor of prey and muffled the companionship of his Clanmates so that he felt like no more than a spirit cat haunting thecamp. 
He joined in the chant, but the ache in his heart hardened untilhis mewtrailed into silence. 
Needleclawnudged him.“Areyou okay?” 
“Yeah.” He met her anxious gaze, widening his own to reassure her. She blinked at him sympathetically. Over the past half-moon, she’d stayed close to himin camp, brought himprey fromthefresh-killpile,and asked to join his patrols. He was grateful for his sister’s care. But some days it seemed too hard to pretend to be fine, and he wished he could leave his Clan for a while and mourn alone in the forest. 
His Clanmates had been through enough, though, and he wasn’t going to worry them by disappearing. So he’d joined every patrol, though he’d wanted to stay in his nest; he’d hunted with his denmates wheneverthey’d asked. And when Beekit and Beetlekit had begun to follow himaround camp with wide, admiring eyes, asking himquestions about his time in the Dark Forest, he’d done his best to hide his sadness as he’d told themhow bravelyBristlefrost and the otherwarriors had fought. 
“Thank you!” Bramblestar’s mew cut through the chanting and thevoices ebbed into silence. 
In front of Rootspring, Kitescratch and Turtlecrawl pricked their ears. Beside him, Violetshine and Tree leaned forward. On the far side of the clearing, the ThunderClan cats shifted eagerly while ShadowClan and WindClan whispered to each other,theirexpectant gazes neverleaving Bramblestar. 
“The Clans have passed through some of their darkest moons,” Bramblestarmewed. 
“Ithought it was theend,” Tawnypelt called. 
“It nearly was!” chimed Shimmerpelt. 
Bramblestar went on as the Clans murmured in agreement. “But we survived. We drove out the impostor and reconnected with StarClan.” Gratitude glistened in his gaze. “Thank you for bringing me back, for seeing what needed to be put right and being prepared to do whatever was necessary to make it happen.” He looked at Squirrelflight. “Thankyou,” he mewed. “No warriorhas ever had such a loyaldeputy ormate. Without you,Iwould have been lost.You nevergave up on me,and you put yourselfin harm’s way overand overagain to save me and protect your Clan. You led themwhen they needed leadership most. Iwill always be gratefulto you.” 
A fresh wave of approving murmurs rippled through the Clans. Rootspring’s ears twitched uncomfortably. He looked around and sawpride shimmering in the eyes ofthe warriors around him. Had they forgotten howeasily they’d turned on each other and how far they’d gone in driving out codebreakers under Ashfur’s command? Not to mention the warriors who’d insisted that the real Bramblestar was gone and that they should kill Ashfur even though it risked leaving Bramblestar’s spirit with no body to return to. Bramblestar must know this. He’d watched the Clans as a ghost. Rootspring felt a new rush of respect for the ThunderClan leader. He was being generous with his speech. 
“But we must remember …” Bramblestar’s gaze hardened. “Ashfur nearly destroyed the Clans by using our code against us. We must remember how close we came to putting those rules above what it truly means to be a warrior.” He looked at Tigerstar. “You understood from the start that using rules to exile and condemn loyal warriors was wrong. You refused to follow Ashfur, even before you knew who he was, and gave a home to exiled warriors when no other Clan would.” He dipped his head to the ShadowClan leader. “I never thought I’d say this, but you showed courageand wisdomaboveallthe Clans.” 
“Tigerstar!” Blazefirecalled out his leader’s name. 
Tawnypelt called it too, along with Scorchfur and Whorlpelt, untila chant rose fromthe ShadowClan cats that spread across thegathering as theotherClans joined in. 
Tigerstar glanced at Dovewing, and Rootspring’s heart ached as he saw the pride in the ShadowClan leader’s eyes reflected by his mate’s. He pressed backthe resentment that jabbed his belly. Why had their love worked out when his hadn’t? He was ashamed that he could begrudge any cat happiness. He didn’t want to be bitter, but anger sometimes threatened to overwhelm him. How could life be so unfair? Why had Bristlefrost’s bravery been rewarded with death? 
Tree moved closeras though sensing his pain.“Let them celebrate,” he whispered gently.“They’vesuffered too.” 
Rootspring glanced at his father. He knewTree was right and leaned against him,gratefulforhis warmth. 
Bramblestarraised his voice once more. “We must thank the brave warriors who risked their lives to defeat Ashfur. 
Let’s remember the early rebels who gave their lives to oppose the dark warrior: Conefoot, Stemleaf, Dappletuft, Sandynose, Frondwhisker, and Strikestone. And the unfortunate warriors who met their deaths because they’d been fooled by the impostor: Rosepetal, Berrynose, Smokehaze, and Softpelt. They deserve our sympathy as well. All are with StarClan now, thanks to the courage of Mistystar, Crowfeather, and Violetshine, who joined a patrol to enter the Dark Forest to fight Ashfur and free StarClan. And I amgratefulto Shadowsight and Rootspring, who not only rescued me fromthe Dark Forest, but returned there to defeat Ashfur once and for all.” A cheer rose from the crowd,filling the night airwith yowls. 
“Rootspring!” 
“Shadowsight!” 
Rootspring caught Shadowsight’s eye across the lifted muzzles and saw there a glimmer of anguish. He guessed that Shadowsight was remembering Bristlefrost, too. She should be with them,hearing this. 
Bramblestar waited for the cheering to end, then went on. “We’ve lost many good cats—Willowshine, whose courage we will never forget, and Graystripe, who was one ofthebravest cats theClans haveeverknown.” 
Rootspring’s heart pounded. He knew the moment was coming when the ThunderClan leader would acknowledge Bristlefrost.Would he have the strength to swallowbackhis grief? 
“Graystripe and Willowshine are in StarClan now,” Bramblestar went on. “But there is one cat who gave up everything, including her place in StarClan, to fight for the Clans.” Rootspring’s breath caught as the ThunderClan leader’s gaze sought his. “Bristlefrost was a young warrior, but she had the courage and wisdomof a cat many moons older. Hersacrifice willalways be remembered,and Igive my sympathy and thanks to those cats who willmiss hermost.” 
Rootspring glanced toward the ThunderClan cats. Ivypool was watching Bramblestar, hollow-eyed, while Fernsong pressed against her, his eyes glistening. Beside them, Bristlefrost’s littermates, Thriftear and Flipclaw, huddled together. 
Bramblestar hadn’t finished. “I want to honor the cats who entered the DarkForest to save the Clans with a special title. From now on they will be known as the Lights in the Mist.” 
“Lights in the Mist!” Kitescratch called out the words, and this time the Clans seemed to join himas one, chanting the newtitle so loudly that the trees seemed to shiver. 
Turtlecrawl glanced over her shoulder, her eyes round with admiration as she looked at Rootspring. His pelt prickled self-consciously as Kitescratch glanced at him, and then Harrybrook did as well. His Clanmates were clearly proud of him, and he wished he could enjoy their gratitude. 
But his heart could only ache at the memory of Bristlefrost. What did atitlemean when hehad lost her? 
Bramblestar moved back, and Mistystar edged forward on the branch. As the RiverClan leader’s gaze swept over the Clans,they grewquiet oncemore. 
“When I visited StarClan …” She ignored the murmurs of amazement bubbling through the crowd. Surely by now every cat had heard about the Dark Forest patrol’s journey to StarClan’s hunting grounds? “We discussed with Firestar and Leafpoolhowto make the warriorcode more relevant to our lives beside the lake. You will know now that StarClan agreed to reorder the rules so that we know which parts of the code they value most. Loyalty is at the heart of every true warrior, and a willingness to protect those weaker than themselves. But there are issues the code still does not cover,and which StarClan has asked us to consider.” 
“We know.” Breezepelt’s yowlwas indignant. “You want us to allow cats fromdifferent Clans to become mates!” He looked around the gathered cats. “I can’t believe StarClan would ever approve of a plan that would undermine every Clan!” 
“StarClan doesn’t see the divisions between us quite as clearly as we do,” Mistystar told him. “Don’t forget, there areno borders in StarClan.” 
Kitescratch narrowed his eyes. “Encouraging cats from different Clans to become mates will send a message that betrayalcan be forgiven!” hecalled out. 
Among the RiverClan cats, Shimmerpelt raised her muzzle.“Ithought StarClan believed loyalty is at the heart of a true warrior,” she grunted. “What’s loyalabout choosing a mate fromanotherClan?” 
Tigerstar bristled. “Loyalty is not that simple!” he called frombesideMistystar. 
“Perhaps it should be!” Lionblazeyowled back. 
Rootspring saw pelts ruffling around the clearing. Cats were beginning to flatten their ears. Tails were flicking angrily. He lifted his chin. “Nothing about being a warrior is simple.” He’d spoken loudly, and his paws pricked self-consciously as muzzles jerked in his direction. Eyes widened as warriors of all Clans turned to look at him. He forced himselfto go on.“Would any ofyou question my loyalty?” 
Kitescratch blinked at him.“Ofcourse not.” 
“You’re one of the Lights in the Mist,” Shimmerpelt called. 
“And yet I was willing to leave my Clan for a cat I’d fallen deeply in lovewith,” he mewed. 
Kitescratch stiffened, surprise rippling through his fur. Around theclearing,Rootspring heard gasps. 
“Leavehis Clan?” 
“Who was hein lovewith?” 
Rootspring steadied his breath. He would share what he’d been through.It might help others.“Iloved Bristlefrost. 
Iwas going to join ThunderClan to be with her.” He pressed on before anyone could speak. “But Inevergot a chance to tellherthat.She died believing that I’d chosen my Clan over her,and Iwillneversee heragain orhave a chance to let her know she was more important to me than even my own Clanmates.” 
Rootspring saw eyes rounding with sympathy. “I don’t need your pity,” he mewed quickly. “I just want things to change. If I hadn’t spent so long trying to choose between my Clan and Bristlefrost, we could have spent what little time we had left together. Instead we spent it torturing ourselves over where our true loyalty lay.” He looked up at Mistystar. “My loyalty would always have been with her, and if it meant moving to her Clan, then my loyalty would have been with herClan,because what was important to her was important to me.” 
Harestar was frowning. “And what about the Clan that raised you?What about yourloyalty to it?” 
Rootspring had no answer. What would he have done if ThunderClan had faced SkyClan in battle? Could he have fought his old Clanmates?Orhis own kin? 
As Rootspring hesitated, Crowfeather spoke. “The truth is,cats have had feelings forwarriors fromotherClans since the Clans began,” he mewed. “But if they’d switched Clans every time they developed a crush,there would be no Clans left.” 
Dovewing’s tailquivered angrily. “No true warriorwould even thinkabout switching Clans fora crush!” 
Rootspring bristled. “My feelings forBristlefrost weren’t acrush!” 
“I know.” Crowfeather returned his gaze solemnly. “You are loyal and brave, and you’ve proved that you are willing risk your life for the good of the Clans. I know you must have thought long and hard about leaving SkyClan.” He turned backto the leaders. “Choosing to leave yourClan for love should neverbe taken lightly. It must neverbe done on a whim. But some loves are worth switching Clans for. Leaving your Clan for love should no longer be forbidden, but neithershould it be easy. The Clans have dealt with cats who wished to switch Clans in different ways, but perhaps we need a formal solution that all the Clans agree on. It is something we need to thinkabout seriously before we come to adecision.” 
The ruffled pelts around the clearing began to smooth. Eyes narrowed, not with indignation now, but thoughtfully. Rootspring sawKitescratch gazing at him. 
“I didn’t realize your feelings for Bristlefrost were so strong,” thereddish-brown tommewed. 
Rootspring stared back at him. “I loved her,” he breathed.“Iloved herso much.” 
Mistystar was talking again, but he barely heard the words. She was saying something about finding a way to remove a leaderwho had lost the trust oftheirClanmates so that a cat like Ashfur could never abuse his power again. But Rootspring didn’t care. It had felt a relief to declare his love for Bristlefrost out loud, in front of all the Clans, but griefhad tightened its grip on himonce more, and he stared blindly ahead as theClans talked and talked. 
At last,Tree nudged him. 
Rootspring looked at himblankly. 
“Areyou staying forthevigil?” Treeasked him. 
“Thevigil?” 
“The Clans are sitting vigilin honorofthose who died.” Tree nodded toward the Great Oak, where the leaders were climbing down. Around the clearing, the Clans were pulling backto theedges,leaving aspace in themiddle. 
Needleclaw shifted beside him. “We can sit over there.” Shenodded toward aspaceat theedgeoftheclearing where atree overhung apatch ofgrass. 
Violetshine was already heading toward it. As Needleclawfollowed,Treenosed Rootspring to his paws. 
“Come on.” Nudging him gently between the other warriors, he guided Rootspring toward the grass patch. Violetshine and Needleclaw made room for him, then huddled close on either side as he pressed his belly against the earth. He felt that he’d been sitting vigil for Bristlefrost every day sinceshe’d died. 
Nestled among his kin, Rootspring let sadness overwhelmhim. Not fighting it, he gazed at the empty space in the clearing where moonlight washed the bare earth with silver light. His heart seemed to break as he pictured Bristlefrost there, a ghost among the living warriors. Her spirit should be with himat least, but it never could be. She was gone. 
Gradually the Clans settled in a wide circle, and silence fellas they paid theirquiet respects to theirfallen Clanmates. The stars turned slowly above them as the night passed. Rootspring felt Needleclaw’s breathing soften beside him. She was sleeping and he let her. She must be tired after watching overhimforso many days and nights. 
A figure moved in the darkness a few tail-lengths away. Rootspring watched a she-cat pad heavily toward him. As she slid from the shadows, he realized it was Spotfur. She was heavy with kits,herflanks bulging. 
He blinked in surprise as she stopped in front of him. “Can you make Stemleaf appear?” she whispered. Her eyes were round with hope. “I just want to talk to him one last time.” 
She was asking because of his power to bring dead cats into the living realmfora fewmoments. But it wouldn’t work now. 
“He’s in StarClan,” he told her. “I can only make stranded spirits appear.” 
“Won’t you try?” Spotfurstared at himhopefully. 
“Will you try for us too?” Ivypool’s mew took Rootspring by surprise. She’d crossed the clearing with Fernsong and was staring at him.“Can you make Bristlefrost appear?” Shemust haveguessed what Spotfurwanted. 
Rootspring blinked at the ThunderClan she-cat. “I can’t reach her,” he mewed. “I wish I could, but she …” He couldn’t finish the sentence. It seemed too cruel to tell Bristlefrost’s kin that she couldn’t be reached now, that they’d neversee heragain. 
“Pleasetry,” Fernsong mewed softly. 
Spotfurwas gazing at him.“Pleasetry.” 
Rootspring understood theirpain. They wanted one last chance to see their loved one. He knew what that felt like. But he knew too that both Stemleaf and Bristlefrost were beyond his reach. He couldn’t make themappear, no matter how hard he tried. He met Spotfur’s gaze. “You meant so much to Stemleaf,” he told her. “He knows about your kits and he’s watching over you from StarClan.” As her eyes glistened,hewent on.“You’llsee himagain,but Ican’t make himappear.You must wait untilyou join him.” At least you’ll have that chance. Yet he knew it must be little comfort. For now, she would have to live every day in ThunderClan without Stemleaf and raise their kits alone. But she seemed to accept Rootspring’s words. 
She dipped her head. “We have both lost so much.” Sadness welling in hereyes,sheturned and padded away. 
Ivypooland Fernsong werestillwatching himhopefully. 
“Bristlefrost’s not in StarClan,is she?” Fernsong mewed. 
Rootspring shookhis head. 
“She must be somewhere.” Ivypool’s mew was edged with fear. “Mustn’t she? I know what happens if you die in the Dark Forest, but …” She ducked her head as her voice gaveout. 
Fernsong nuzzled her gently, his eyes on Rootspring. “Perhaps you could try,” he suggested. “It would bring us such comfort.” 
Rootspring couldn’t bring himself to refuse, even though he knew that reaching Bristlefrost was impossible. The sun was beginning to lift behind the moors,bathing the island in pinklight.Around him,theClans werebeginning to move. Warriors got to their paws. Elders stretched stiffly. Apprentices began to pace, impatient to return home after theirlong night. 
Hemet Ivypool’s gaze.“I’lltry,” he murmured. 
He closed his eyes and touched his muzzle to the grass. Pressing his paws against the ground, he let his thoughts reach deep into the earth. She wouldn’t be there, but he searched for her anyway. His heart trembled in his chest as though it still believed she must be there somewhere, listening forhis call. Suddenly,images streamed through his mind—of Bristlefrost leaning against him beneath a willow tree, running beside himthrough the forest, curled with him in a nest with three tiny kits, two pale gray like her, one yellow and white. It was as though the earth held memories ofwhat should have been as wellas what was. Orperhaps it was simply showing him what he’d hoped for with all his heart. Lifting his muzzle, he opened his eyes, sadness engulfing himanew. 
Ivypooland Fernsong were staring at him. Every hairon theirpelts seemed to quiverwith hope. 
He shook his head. “She’s not there,” he whispered hoarsely. 
Fernsong dipped his head. “Thank you for trying.” There was calmacceptance in his mew. He touched his nose to Ivypool’s cheek.“She’s gone,” hemewed quietly. 
Ivypool blinked at him. “She’ll always be in our hearts, though?” Shespokeas though it was aquestion. 
“Of course she will,” Fernsong reassured her. “Beside the lake and in StarClan. Her spirit will live on as long as ours do,becauseshewillliveinsideus.” 
Ivypool’s pelt smoothed. Reliefshowed in hertired face. “Thank you,” she mewed to Rootspring, and, turning, let Fernsong guideheraway. 
Needleclaw stretched beside Rootspring, the warmth of her pelt seeping into his as she leaned against him. He wondered how long she’d been awake. Tree had already gotten to his paws, and Violetshine was giving her face a quickwash beforeshegot ready to head backto camp. 
“Come on.” Needleclaw nosed Rootspring up. “Our Clanmates areleaving.” 
She nodded to where Leafstar was leading Harrybrook, Kitescratch, and Turtlecrawl into the long grass that led to the tree-bridge. 
Rootspring cast one last look over the clearing, his eye falling on the spot where Shadowsight sat beside Pouncestep and Lightleap. The young medicine cat stared back,his ambereyes seeming to shimmerwith both griefand exhaustion.Then henodded. 
Rootspring nodded back. Then he turned and followed Needleclawas shepadded afterVioletshineand Tree. 
Her spirit will live on as long as ours do, because she will live inside us. Fernsong’s words rang in his mind. His heart still ached at the thought that he’d failed to save the life of the cat he’d loved most. She was gone, and not even herspirit remained. No warriorwould see herin StarClan. No warriorwould feelherlove again. Orhearhergentle mew. Or feel their paws guided by hers. But as long as cats remembered her, Bristlefrost would live on. Not just in her parents’hearts but in his heart too. She could nevertruly be gone.She would always bewith him. 
As he nosed his way into the soft grass, and the sun began to spilllight across the lake, he felt griefat last begin to loosen its grip on his heart. 

Aboutthe 
Author 

ERIN HUNTER is inspired by a love of cats and a fascination with the ferocity ofthe naturalworld. In addition to having great respect fornature in allits forms,Erin enjoys creating rich mythical explanations for animal behavior. She is also the authorofthe Seekers,Survivors,Bravelands,and Bamboo Kingdomseries. 
Discovergreat authors,exclusiveoffers,and moreat hc.com. 



BackAds 



Copyright 

ALIGHT INTHEMIST.Copyright ©2021byWorkingPartnersLtd. Seriescreatedby WorkingPartnersLtd. Map art ©2015, 2018 by Dave Stevenson. Interior art ©2019 by Owen Richardson. All rights reservedunder International andPan-American Copyright Conventions. By payment of the requiredfees, youhave been granted the nonexclusive, nontransferable right to accessandreadthe text of thise-book on-screen. No part of thistext may be reproduced, transmitted, downloaded, decompiled, reverse-engineered, or storedin or introducedinto any information storage andretrieval system, in any form or by any means, whether electronic or mechanical, now known or hereafter invented, without the expresswritten permission of HarperCollinse-books. 
www.harpercollinschildrens.com 

Cover art © 2021 by Owen Richardson Series cover design by Ellice M. Lee 
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data Names: Hunter, Erin, author. 
Title: Alight in the mist / Erin Hunter. 
Description: First edition. | New York : Harper, [2021] | Series: Warriors: the broken code ; book six | Audience: Ages 8–12. | Audience: Grades 4–6. | Summary: “StarClan, the Dark Forest, and all five warrior Clans band together for a final battle that seeks to destroy Bramblestar’s impostor before he destroys everything they holddear”— Providedby publisher. 
Identifiers: LCCN 2021024286 | ISBN 978-0-06-282388-5 
(hardcover) | ISBN 978-0-06-282389-2 (library binding) Subjects: 
CYAC: Cats—Fiction. |Fantasy. Classification: LCCPZ7.H916625 Li 2021 |DDC[Fic]—dc23 LCrecordavailable at https://lccn.loc.gov/2021024286 
Digital Edition NOVEMBER2021 ISBN: 978-0-06-282391-5 Print ISBN: 978-0-06-282388-5 
21 22 23 24 25 PC/LSCH 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 

FIRST EDITION 


About 
the 
Publisher 

Australia 
HarperCollins Publishers AustraliaPty.Ltd. Level13,201Elizabeth Street Sydney,NSW 2000,Australia 
www.harpercollins.com.au 


Canada 
HarperCollins Publishers Ltd Bay AdelaideCentre,East Tower22Adelaide Street West,41st FloorToronto,Ontario, M5H4E3 
www.harpercollins.ca 


India 
HarperCollins IndiaA75,Sector57 Noida UttarPradesh 201301 
www.harpercollins.co.in 


NewZealand 
HarperCollins Publishers NewZealand Unit D1,63Apollo DriveRosedale0632 Auckland,NewZealand www.harpercollins.co.nz 

UnitedKingdom 
HarperCollins Publishers Ltd. 1London BridgeStreet London SE19GF,UK 
www.harpercollins.co.uk 


UnitedStates 
HarperCollins Publishers Inc. 195Broadway NewYork,NY10007 
www.harpercollins.com 
